I know it's obvious to a lot of you who
watch my
channel what I'm about to say and why it
makes sense but I hope that what I'm
going to say will help to put this into
a little different perspective than
we're used to and I hope it will help
you in your healing to realize what you
escaped from and I hope it will help
those of us who have loved ones still
stuck in
Christianity to understand what they're
dealing with why it's so hard to walk
[Music]
away Christians are gambling their lives
away they Shuffle their feet like cards
in a dealer's hands Palms sweating
Hearts racing eyes locked on the prize
but the prize is just Mirage a gilded
cage a promised whisper it in stained
glass rooms a jackpot that's never drawn
a figment painted in sermons elusive as
smoke in a cathedral flickering just
beyond reach like the glint of a royal
flesh that never quite
comes they slide their chips across the
Velvet years of Sundays Decades of
obedience tithes and prayers sins
confessed Souls surrendered stacking
their hope in the Full House of God
where repentance is the currency and
salvation is a moving Target drifting
like a shoreline they were told one day
they'd reach thereby in is everything
family ambition
identity all pushed to the center of the
table with Trembling
Hands they bet on faith like it's a safe
bet as if the odds don't matter when you
call call it truth as if belief bends
reality and the wheel won't spin
indifferent to their desperate shaking
hands fingernails digging into the pews
like anchors in a storm when what they
crave is to LEAP into the wind and run
Barefoot across the Earth come
alive we watch them double down on
Doctrine as if Divine roulette has a
bias for the desperate hedging their
eternity like a backroom deal trading
their minds for the comfort of certainty
trading their bodies for a seat at the
table trading their power for a place in
the game a game they don't even realize
is rigged a game scripted in ancient ink
repeated until the abuse sounds like
love their anti is obedience and the PO
is always just one more sacrifice away
the dealer Smiles a priest in robes a
pastor in a suit a prophet in rags a
Bible in hand each one offering the same
gamble all in or nothing at all no exit
clause no refund policy only promises
dressed in Fire and light and warning
scrawled in fear across the margins of
their Bibles and their lives every altar
call is a final table every sermon is a
spin of the wheel they hold their breath
the dice rattling like thunder in their
skulls rolling down the pulpit Edge
tumbling over centuries of dogma and
dust Heaven or Hell Grace or wrath life
or death the stakes etched in sacred
silence and thunderous guilt as if love
could be reduced to a ledger and Joy
rationed by a
Creed as if eternal life were the pot
and every choice a wager and when the
dice stop when the cards fall when the
chips are spent and the prayers go cold
will they ever dare to look up and see
the empty hands of others who have taken
the same gamble they forgot to count the
cost of the wager one they should have
never placed a wager disguised his
worship demanded in the name of Divine
Mercy will they ask themselves if fear
was ever meant to be a compass or if the
deck was always stacked if the house has
an edge or if they really even know the
rules of the
game or will they whisper as they sink
deeper and deeper into into the game I
can't stop now I've come too
far it's the monter of the broken who
mistake bondage for loyalty who fear the
silence more than the lies who've
wrapped chains in velvet and called them
Grace while the song of their own soul
waits unplayed in a locked drawer of
Dreams hoping that maybe this time the
River card will finally break in their
favor before The
Showdown and the house laughs
not cruy but confidently the way an old
machine hums with time tested Precision
the way certainty sounds when it's never
been questioned the way power speaks
when no one knows how to walk
away when no one remembers they were
born to LEAP to dance to live with fire
in their chest and paint their legacy
across the Stars the casino of Christian
control needs only your hope to stay
open they wager everything on an unseen
Kingdom stack their existence on a
promise never proven a whispered hope
that Echoes through church Halls a
golden City shimmering just beyond the
veil they call it faith I called a
blindfold tied tight with Trembling
Hands a contract signed in Blood and
fear a gambler's High dressed up as
devotion it's a long con with holy
lighting and generational Bion they fold
their dreams in into pews kneel beneath
the weight of Eternity roll the red and
black dice cast their Lots hoping
praying pleading that when the final
breath escapes their lips they'll awake
into streets of gold as If Heaven were a
cash out window waiting just on the
other side instead of waking to The
Silence of the Void or not waking up at
all how many poems have gone Unwritten
how many wild songs silenced at the
altar how many lives reduced to Qui
compliance when they were meant to bloom
Untamed to run Barefoot with laughter
toward the unknown what if the dealer is
bluffing what if the cards are marked
the game rigged the wheel spun long
before they ever sat down at the
table what if the jackpot was just house
propaganda advertised in glowing sermons
never truly rewarded what if preacher
has no real idea if his message is
really Ultimate Reality or just another
mythology
what if the jackpot is a story woven in
desperation stitched together in the
dark corners of History to keep the
players playing to keep the chips
flowing to keep the house Standing Tall
and still they bet not just their own
Souls but their childrens their lovers
their neighbors their enemies they cast
them all into the same pot confident
that the reward outweighs the risk that
they are wasting their one short life as
they fold their Futures into Faith sh
rling innocence into the game the risk
is a life unlived days scripted by fear
and ritual dreams sheld for the sake of
a promised afterlife a mind unchallenged
taught not to ask but to submit told
that doubt is rebellion and questioning
is sin a heart Shackled to an illusion
love filtered through Doctrine
compassion weighed down by conditions a
self lost to the shadows of a shell game
that was never meant to be
one Christianity is a rigged table where
the rules make no sense and it was
decided before you ever sat down that
none of the players would ever win this
is not life this is not Freedom this is
a wager made in fear of being human and
the world is waiting aching for us to
rise from the table step outside the
walls and become so much more than they
ever tried to tell us we are it's time
to cash out our silence and reclaim
ourselves
and when the final card is turned when
the breath Stills and the silence Falls
when the veil lifts and nothing Waits on
the other side will they realize they've
been playing with ghosts will they
grieve the life they've spent chasing a
prize that was never there will they
keep their eyes shut tight murmuring
prayers into the abyss Whispering once
more it must be real despite all the
evidence against it simply has to be
life makes no sense if there's no chance
to win the spin of the
wheel it's almost as if they are telling
telling us that even though they have
every reason to leave staying at the
table will make losing feel like
[Music]
winning they told us to stake it all
this life this breath this fleeting
heartbeat of a human experience on what
comes
next on a roulette wheel spun by Angels
who never show their faces as if Wonder
were a wager and living boldly was a sin
as if Joy had to be earned with chips we
didn't realize we were spending as if
the only table worth playing was the one
rigged against us from the
start they taught us that the afterlife
was a sure thing a check signed in Blood
and sealed in
gold too ashamed to say they were
bluffing too haunted to admit they were
guessing clinging to myths like Po chips
at closing
time afraid to cash out afraid of what
the empty table might say afraid the Pit
Boss of the cosmos might call their
Bluff they told us to fold our questions
like paper prayers into the cracks of
scripture told us to hedge our hearts on
heaven to tithe our doubts to Eternity
to go all in on the kingdom we've never
seen one gated by verses and guarded by
guilt a place whispered about in hushed
tones always just Out Of Reach just out
of Reason like a payout that only ever
existed on stained glass
brochures it's a high stakes table where
only the house knows the rules a
Celestial Casino where the deck is
stacked and the dice are very
loaded they say don't worry if it
doesn't make sense Faith isn't supposed
to just close your eyes hold your breath
and jump into the dark leap trust die
believing bet blind bet big bet
everything
even your fire even your voice even your
shot at a life lived loud and laughing
even your questions tossed like dice
across a silent altar even your
instincts your last chip of clarity they
framed it like an investment Eternal
returns interest paid in glory but it
felt more like a con like spiritual
cryptocurrency with no proof of concept
no receipts no ledgers just the Warm
Glow of someone else's certainty
a pyramid scheme of Salvation sold door
too in Sunday Best we were sold on the
jackpot but never told the odds a sucker
game with infinite ante and no payout
screen we mortgaged our now for a
mansion in the sky that might not even
have our name on the deed and I paid
with my wonder my wildness my one
precious chance to dance while the music
still played I bet my laughter on a
silent dealer who never turned over his
hand I pushed in my last chips of Youth
of dreaming of unfiltered
joy we played rush and roulette with our
souls spin the barrel of Salvation click
click click will you be saved will he
choose you do you really believe enough
are you pure enough did you pray the
right way did you mean it when you said
his name or were you bluffing or were
you bluffing yourself were you playing a
game you never had a chance to win was
the jackpot ever even in the vault or
just smoke on a dealer's
breath they said heaven or hell like
there were no other Maps like all the
galaxies could be reduced to Pearly
Gates or burning bones no middle ground
no side roads no room for doubt no
refunds just all or nothing all the time
a binary that burns an ultimatum that
devoured Nuance Beauty and the color
wheel of human existence an All or
Nothing parlay where Second Chances were
never part of the spread where folding
was called Rebellion and reshuffling the
cards was heresy we made promises with
our fingers crossed wrote checks with
our spirit we didn't know would cash
every prayer a lottery ticket every
worship song a slot machine pull the
lever of devotion maybe he'll show Mercy
maybe or maybe the silence is the only
answer we were ever going to get a
Stillness mistaken for listening and all
the while the jackpot kept Vanishing
behind the curtain a Divine bait and
switch with no winning numbers ever
drawn they sold a certainty wrapped in
ancient parchment spoke of paradise like
real estate agents selling beachfront
property in a dream you couldn't wake up
from and we bought it we signed we moved
in only to find the view obscured by fog
and fear and the ocean was a metaphor
and the tide never came it was a scratch
off theology always almost always not
quite a lucky draw that never turned
lucky a payout blocked behind
faith-based terms and conditions but
I've come to see what if this is the
life what if this is the whole hand what
if the only eternity that matters is the
one that we shape right now with
trembling fingers and a pulse that we
can still feel what if Joy isn't a prize
that we earn but a practice that we
learn and what if the gamble was never
worth the grief what if the jackpot was
already in our chest quietly beating
waiting to be heard beneath the noise of
someone else's
gospel what if the miracle was never a
mansion but a bonfire that we build with
our own hands warming others while
there's still
time what if our Legacy is the way we
laughed with our whole lungs how we
danced Barefoot in the middle of the
chaos how we loved without a single
guarantee what if the pot of gold is the
freedom to be fully human flawed glowing
undone and still enough
what if the safest bet was always this
breath this moment this chance to go all
in on being Fully Alive what if the real
jackpot is not somewhere beyond but
right here right now waiting in the
courage it takes to stop playing someone
else's
game what if the winning hand is self
trust what if Liberation is the Royal
fles no one told us we already
held what if the payout is the laugh we
didn't suppress the truth we finally
voiced The Wager we placed on our own
worth and it paid out in
[Music]
full they push their chips across the
table stacking their souls against the
odds against reason against doubt
against the quiet voice inside that
Whispers what if you're
wrong but they won't hear it they can't
afford to to question is to crack the
foundation to invite the collapse to
watch the scaffolding of certainty come
crashing down in splinters of fear razor
edged and impossible to gather once
broken like shards of stained glass in
trembling hands like a busted flush in
the middle of the final round no win no
cover no way out so they double down on
scripture on sermons on Sunday mornings
on every unshakable truth that Quivers
if you stare too long that trembles like
an old house during a storm each Timber
groaning with stories no one dares to
speak aloud each verse is a bluff every
Doctrine is just another chip in a
desperate pot and they recite the lines
they've memorized like
incantations as if repetition makes
something real as if conviction makes
something true as if a chant could beat
the odds they hold their Bibles like a
shield as if words on a page can turn
away the tide of reason as if Faith
itself is the hand of God pulling them
to shore when they've been treading
water for years weary of Salvation that
never arrives drowning at the table
clutching promises like IOU in a rigged
hand the tide doesn't stop Rising the
flood waters creep higher and the
shoreline they were promised is nowhere
to be seen swallowed by the Sea of quiet
doubts they dared not name washed out by
centuries of met hope carried off by the
waves like unanswered prayers like
tokens dropped in a well that never
Echoes back
still they
cling because to let go is to sink to
let go is to face the void to see the
world as it really is vast uncaring
unconcerned with their belief and yet
breathtaking in its rawness still
inviting them to dance silent and sacred
in its indifference and yet pulsing with
the beauty of being
unowned the moment they walk away they'd
have to admit the jackpot was a myth so
they build higher walls walls of
doctrine of apologetics walls so thick
that not even doubt can seep in layered
with Psalms patched with fear lit with
flickering hope built from Fear
masquerading his devotion painted with
the smiles of the faithful and the
Silence of the terrified and they stand
inside clutching their certainty like
their last chip believing that if they
just hold on long enough they'll hit the
jackpot of divine revelation one day God
himself will prove that they were right
all along that the trembling was worth
it that every silence question was a
step closer to huge rewards that every
prayer was a seed not a stone that their
aching was a holy currency not an
offering lost in the dark as if Faith
were a Progressive payout slowly
building interest in the celestial prize
pool my friends faith is not a winning
hand faith is a stalling tactic a slow
bleed a desperate delay a way to keep
playing long after the Smart Ones leave
the table long after the Music Stops and
the lights are flickering out casting
Long Shadows over everything
they gave up to keep believing long
after the dealer is packed up and the
chips were
dust and when the truth is laid bear
when they see the dealer was
bluffing when they realize the pot was
empty this whole time will they
rage will they
weep or will they force themselves to
believe just one more time just enough
to get through one more night just
enough to silence that art of them still
begging to be free swall following the
LIE calling it Grace like doubling down
with no cards left to play if they fold
now if they walk away now if they admit
that reason was the only ace in the deck
then they'll have to face the hardest
truth of all that they've bet their
whole lives on a lie a lie wrapped in
love songs and threats in hymns and
warnings a lie they gave their first
breath to a lie that was sung over to
them in their crib and wept over during
their wedding vows stitched into their
lullab eyes worn like a second skin
sweet with
Nostalgia but cruel in its
grip and behind that
lie like a light spilling through a
broken curtain is the world they were
meant to live
in a world not ruled by fear but
overflowing with the ache to taste to
touch
to become a world with no buyin just raw
existence begging to be held a world
where nobody Waits For Eternity to begin
loving their life no one withholds their
Joy No One trades their soul for a
promise that's never going to get here
we were meant to be free meant to sing
with our whole bodies meant to carve our
names in the sky and leave behind more
than obedience we were meant to leave
behind love what do you do when the LIE
you lived for has stolen the life that
you were meant to live what do you do
when your soul wants to run Barefoot
through the grass but you've kept it
Shackled In a sanctuary kneeling where
you should have danced Whispering when
you longed to sing what do you do when
the only thing you've ever known turns
out to be the thing that held you
back you called it
safety when the garden waited just
beyond the
gate but you were told the gate was
then will you wait forever for a love
that never
arrives or will you take your one wild
precious
breath and finally live it Untamed
unowned fully awake will you leave the
table push in your final chip and walk
into the sunrise with nothing but
yourself and everything finally
truly yours
[Music]
they kneel at the
table chips piled high hands clasped
tight Whispering incantations into the
void rolling the dice with closed eyes
begging pleading
promising Lord let this one hit let this
one be the one that proves that it all
meant something that I didn't waste my
breath on silence dressed up as a
sanctuary they've been told it
works they've been told that prayer
moves mountains that Faith shifts the
odds that a Divine ear bends low to
catch their every whispered need like a
lullabi humming in the dark like a
parent who never leaves the room and so
they Place their
beds again and again and again a sick
child pray harder Allah job pray longer
a broken heart pray without ceasing as
if enough desperation can buy a miracle
as If Heaven is a vault that only opens
Under Pressure they pump quarters into
the celestial slot machine pulling the
lever of Supplication hoping for a
payout hoping for the bells to ring for
the flashing lights of Miracles for the
jackpot of divine intervention that
never quite comes only the sound of
breath held and Never released only the
echo of their own voice circling back
through the hollow and still they anti
up with every breath not realizing that
the game is tilted against them from the
start this isn't poker this is spiritual
roulette and the Chamber never clicks
empty and when the silence answers back
when the illness lingers and the rent is
still overdue and when the coffin still
lowers into the ground they whisper not
my will but
yours words that taste like surrender
and
a ritual of Letting Go when the Letting
Go breaks them in half a forced smile a
hollow Faith a rigged game that can't be
questioned where the rules change
whenever doubt dares to speak and even
grief is sometimes considered a
rebellion to admit it doesn't
work to admit they've wasted their
prayers wasted their tears wasted the
small flickering hope that somewhere out
there somebody was listening
somebody was watching holding a plan too
holy to explain too cruel to be examined
up
close and so they tell themselves prayer
works you just don't see it God answered
you just didn't like the answer the dice
fell exactly as he
planned even if it crushed you in the
process even if it shattered your faith
into tiny reverent pieces like confetti
tossed at a
funeral the alternative is
Unthinkable the alternative is staring
into the abyss seeing the empty Sky
staring back realizing that no amount of
prayer will ever stack the deck will
ever change the odds will ever bend the
universe in their favor because the
Universe plays no favorites makes no
promises and owes no explanations and so
they pre
on like a gambler chasing the next big
wind convincing themselves that the next
hand will be different that the next
pull of the lever will bring the
floodgates of Heaven open wide with
light and mercy and proof that love was
listening that their cries didn't
dissolve into nothing they live in
spiritual sunk cost
fallacies doubling down with every
unanswered petition bluffing their pain
away at the felt covered altar raising
the stakes with every heartbreak
and when it doesn't when all they hear
is silence when all they see is the
world turning without them when the sky
remains still and their hands remain
empty when their body ages waiting for
answers that are never going to arrive
they whisper through gritted teeth I
can't stop now I've come too
far turning back would mean facing the
ghosts of every unanswered play every
tear that fell into that void every
moment they waited for the voice that
never came
came every moment they passed by the
world outside afraid it would betray
their devotion they can't stop
now not because their faith is
necessarily alive or
strong but because the truth might
be and the truth is harder to
carry when you've Bet Your Life on a
whisper admitting the silence was always
silence feels like betrayal not just of
God but of themselves
and yet even now that the wind calls to
them the real world Untouched by
theology cries out with color with chaos
with the aching gift of Being Human and
ask them to live before it's too late to
cash out before the next hand to walk
away from the table while there's still
something left to claim namely
themselves
[Music]
they should
fold they should walk
away the cards on the table don't match
the ones in their
hand but still they Double
Down Eyes Full of hope they no longer
feel hands trembling as they reach out
for one more borrowed
truth it's a cold call on a busted
flush a desperate gamble in that final
round raise the
stakes bet their people peace their
logic their very breath on doctrines
that crumble under the weight of a
single question truths that tremble when
touched like glass stretched too thin to
hold the
heat they're pot committed now stuck in
a game they can't afford to lose
bluffing their way through another
sermon they sit at the table of Faith
pushing all in on the contradictions
stacking scripture like chips balancing
Genesis against John levitic against
love Paul against Jesus the Old
Testament wrath against the New
Testament Grace pretending they all
belong in the same deck pretending they
all make sense when shuffled just right
when arranged like poetry they must
never be read aloud a collage of
absolutes stitched together in
silence each verse is a face card in a
mismatched hand hoping for a miracle on
the river they see the cracks the way
Yahweh shifts from a jealous war god to
A Tender Shepherd the way sin is
inherited but free will is sacred the
way God is all loving but hell is
eternal the way prayers are answered
except when they
aren't when silence Roars louder than
Mercy when silence is recast as Divine
mystery they see the inconsistencies but
they can't afford to acknowledge them
can't bear to meet the eyes of the child
they used to be eyes that once lit up at
flannel graph stories and Promises of
forever so they play the hand their
dealt convincing themselves it's a royal
fles when it's barely a pair of twos
held together by habit or hymns threaded
with Nostalgia and
fear a bluff at the high stakes table of
Eternity they memorize the right answers
like a card shark's slight of hand quick
ERS quick words ready to spin a Doctrine
into a trick of the light before the
illusion slips and the curtain is pulled
back the whole
operation the whole whole thing is a
shell game dressed in sacred
robes they redefine free will when the
problem of evil arises they redefine
omniscience when prophecy fails they
redefine Grace when morality bends and
kindness no longer fits within the frame
of Holiness when love starts to look too
human to be divine they hedge their Bets
with theological footnotes pray like
they're covering of spread every
question has an answer even if the
answer is just a theological shuffle a
quick flick of the wrist to hide the
flaw to keep the illusion alive to keep
the audience clapping instead of asking
questions to keep the show going even
after the light's dim
they play their tells like
rituals hoping no one calls them
out if they let just one card
fall the whole house could come crashing
down and buried beneath it are years
they can never reclaim birthdays
holidays spent inside
pews wildness and Beauty traded for
obedience if one truth turns the Dust
the whole deck is counterfeit and the
hands that held it were only ever
bluffing and they can't bear the thought
that they've been playing a rigged game
since the day they sat down at the table
invited by those they trusted most those
who spoke with unshakable conviction it
was a fixed table from the start the
dealer always divined the outcome always
for ordained so they double down on
verses out of context on polished until
it shines on faith strong enough to
withstand reason too fragile to
withstand a question too brittle to hold
the weight of real love the kind that
welcomes doubt like a friend and asks
nothing in
return they're chasing their losses
now they're caught in a gambler's
fallacy of the Soul they're stacking
their prayers like chips in a losing
streak and when their hands shake when
the doubts creep in when the weight of
the contradictions presses against the
ribs like a tightening belt when every
inhale feels like choosing to lie to
themselves again when their own
reflection begins to ask for answers
they
whisper again and
again I can't stop now I've come too far
I've bet everything on
this as if walking away now would mean
the pain was for nothing instead of the
beginning of everything real instead of
the start of the life they've always
ached for in secret and again the house
Smiles not necessarily with malice but
with
familiarity like an old friend who knows
you'll be back at the table before long
because it was never just about belief
it was about belonging about fear about
what you were told would happen if you
left it was always a long
con faith is a high-risk investment with
invisible returns sold by snake eyes and
preacher
suits they kept raising the stakes with
testimonies praying for a lucky flop of
Hope never noticing the odds were
astronomical their chips were time
innocence
youth their losses were counted in years
and tears and still somewhere beyond the
noise beyond the walls of their theology
the world still
Waits maybe for you
messy honest Unchained ready to be lived
a world without a rigged dealer without
loaded dice without the illusion of this
jackpot That Never
[Music]
Comes they sit at the
table years of
belief set up and arranged like poker
chips the weight of Sunday mornings of
tithes and
testimonies sermons that still echo in
their minds a lifetime laid out in
devotion too heavy to carry too costly
to
abandon like a house built on Sand
they're too tired to
rebuild walls leaning with the memories
of who they thought they had to be it's
the late game now and the pot is
enormous they should walk away the signs
are there the cards are bad the Dealer's
smile is too sharp and deep down some of
them know it even if they won't say it
aloud they've seen the dealer stack the
deck they've watched others bust and
still keep
betting but still they
stay not always because they believe but
because they've already given too much
they've already carved too many altars
they've already bled too much hope onto
the sanctuary floor
they're
overcommitted to a bizarre insane extent
stuck in a bluff that's more about
culture than worldview trapped in the
glare of the house lights if they don't
keep believing they lose it all not just
the years and the pews but the identity
wrapped in scripture the community built
in the hymns the prayers stitched into
the very fabric of their soul each one a
thread pulling them tighter into the
story binding their breath to a
narrative they're too afraid to unravel
the buyin was their childhood The Rake
has been their Joy the dealers cut was
always their freedom if they fold now
they would have to
admit they were profoundly wrong and
that they've gambled their lives away
and who could bear that who could stare
into the abyss of wasted time and not
feel their knees Buckle beneath them who
could let in the truth without
shattering who could make a quiet break
without losing everything that they once
called sacred what Christian can admit
they've been chasing a cold streak their
whole lives betting on this fixed table
bluffing their soul into obedience and
so they double down again and again and
again and again and again another church
service another Bible study another
whispered prayer begging to the faith to
silence the doubt another whispered
prayer begging for the faith to silence
their doubts for the certainty to
replace the creeping gnawing truth that
maybe just maybe they have been gambling
on a lie and the jackpot they've been
promised was never on the table it was
just a mirage held out like a carrot
tied to a cross a false jackpot a
theological Lottery that no one ever
wins where the only payout is more
waiting but the longer they stay the
harder it is to leave the cost Rises
with every passing year the chains
tighten with every chorus sung the exit
door Fades into the background covered
by the noise of Hallelujah and
amens disguised discomfort reinforced
with fear wrapped in ritual smoothed
over by Decades of practiced belief the
game becomes the cage the BET becomes
the belief the chips become chains they
tell themselves it's safer this this way
that it's better to keep playing better
to keep hoping better to die in the game
than to leave and realize they spend a
lifetime betting on nothing sitting
still afraid to dance Outside the Lines
terrified of the wild Joy waiting on the
other
side it's easier for them to chase the
loss than to face The Ledger easier to
believe a payouts coming than to admit
you've been cleaned
out and when you feel the weight of it
when they see the year
slipping through their fingers like sand
in an hourglass grains made of memories
they never got to live moments unlived
songs unsung colors never chosen for the
canvas when they hear the voice inside
whisper it's okay to leave it's okay to
be free to run to breathe to become to
reclaim the wild light behind your
eyes they shake their head
grip the cards tighter sweat it out as
they ponder their pocket Deuces digging
their nails into the past and Whispering
back I can't stop my luck is bound to
turn around soon somehow someway I'll
find a way to prove that Yahweh and
Jesus are real that his death and
Resurrection saves me that the Bible is
the one true mythology they think that
playing long enough somehow earns them
points and gives meaning to the
foolishness
of their Human Sacrifice blood magic
death
cult as if folding is failure not
Freedom as if believing it long enough
somehow makes it more true as if
survival is the same thing as peace as
if perseverance could sanctify the
path the house knows it can keep them
seated by convincing them that loss is
worse than
Liberation that walking away means
giving up when really it means beginning
again birthing yourself Beyond The
Blueprint someone else sketched in
fear it knows the odds it counts the
cards it knows Faith held too long
becomes
captivity my friends outside the casino
the world Waits Untamed unscripted
glorious in its uncertainty bursting
with possibility pulsing with truth
Untouched by theology no no dealer no
house cut just life raw and real and
freedom real Freedom that does not
require justification or
sanctification it only asks that you
trust yourself enough to stand up and
leave the table walk Barefoot into the
unknown arms open to the wind heart
finally beating in your own Rhythm cash
out stop playing the hand someone else
dealt you walk in the sun leave your
chips behind and let your soul finally
be
unshuffled wake
[Music]
up but they keep pulling the lever week
after week service after service their
pockets lighter their souls
heavier the payout never comes just the
echo of promises that dissolve like
steam Rising off a road that leads
nowhere they sit in the pews gamblers at
their slot machine feeding their time
their money their hearts into a system
designed to keep them spinning designed
to Blink and Buzz like a spiritual
one-armed Bandit promising but never
delivering making them believe the next
prayer the next tithe the next sacrifice
that'll hit the jackpot have will spill
open just keep pressing in Just
Surrender a little bit more of
yourself it's one more spin one more
alter call one more emotional high from
Divine approval or the fake catharsis of
a religious
confession so they play the game they
read the books they fast they repent
they kneel lift their hands beg weep
speak in tongues in desperation as if
their ache could open the gates and
rewrite the rules
each Act is another coin another pull
another wager in the casino of
sanctification they call it Faith he
call devotion but it's just a holy
hustle dressed in stained glass
reverence a sacred slot machine glowing
beneath vaulted ceilings it is a Divine
Ponzi scheme where only the house gets
Rich where the emotional dividends
rarely pay out and the chance to truly
win at life was never a real option
and the payout a feeling a fleeting
moment a chill down the spine during
worship a shiver they swear is the holy
spirit a manufactured Euphoria wrapped
in the illusion of divine presence
emotion choreographed to mimic
Transcendence a chemical cocktail in
their minds stirred in perfect timing
with the final cord of a song a pale of
Goosebumps instead of Grace of dopamine
instead of divinity and for a
moment each week it's enough for a
moment the bells ring the lights Flash
the reels align just enough to trick the
soul they believe they've won something
real something more than adrenaline and
surrender mixed together something holy
enough to keep the ache
away but the moment Fades and the hunger
returns and The Emptiness settles back
in like a sh with their feet curling
under the pews lingering behind the
Hallelujah wrapping itself around their
ankles like a familiar ghost named
almost or so close or maybe next time so
they pull the lever again they go back
for more because stopping would mean
admitting that the machine never pays
out that the system is built to keep
them playing that this is a rigged
Mirage programmed to never hit that the
thrill of almost
is enough to keep them locked in chasing
something they will never
get they're on a losing streak disguised
as spiritual growth a cycle of sunk cost
devotion as they watch the pastors the
ones who own the casino who live in the
pen houses above who never seem to
struggle or question or suffer the way
the gamblers do that are never caught
with empty hands or trembling faith that
never wake up with a soul full of
Silence these are the high rollers the
house of God insulated for now from The
Fallout playing with house money while
the others grow broke in spirit and
still they believe they believe because
they have
to they cannot accept the loss they
cannot walk away broke with nothing but
Wasted Years in their hands a lifetime
of offering plates and unanswered
prayers a trail of Sunday spent trying
to buy a heaven that never answered
back the
payout it's the graveyard of receipts
with no Redemption counter and so they
just keep
going sliding another worship service
into the machine pushing another prayer
across the counter swallowing their
doubts and continuing to play the
ridiculous
game what if the game never
ends what if Freedom means walking away
with nothing but the chance to start
again to taste the different kind of
Holiness what if walking away from the
casino floor meant your hands were empty
but
they were finally your
own but the house keeps humming soft and
familiar and the congregation Can't Stop
Singing because it sounds like home even
while it keeps them from ever going
there The House Always Wins especially
when it teaches you to lose
quietly to lose
Faithfully to
lose and call it sanctification and
holiness
[Music]
they hold their hand close clutching
their faith like a royal fles confident
certain convinced playing it like
they've got their
Aces yet the Flop never favors their
suit it's a bluff a performance honed by
fear a script memorized before they ever
knew they had a choice this is a game of
Make Believe played in the
dark the stakes are love family
belonging the very air we're meant to
breathe the warmth we're meant to rest
in this high stakes table is where you
lose your
identity they push all in they bet their
loyalty to these doctrines their
obedience to the word of God their
unwavering submission to the rules of a
game of chance that they did not design
rules etched by much older hand hands
with absurd certainty pressed down like
heirlooms wrapped in guilt no chance to
withdraw no option to fold without
losing faith and when the dealer calls
when the test comes and the moment
arrives to prove that they are faithful
they take all their chips and lay them
at the altar bleeding quietly beneath
their Sunday Smiles trying not to
tremble beneath the weight of betrayal
called love it's a cold read of the Soul
hoping the dealer won't call their Bluff
a mother disowns her own son not because
she does not love him but because she
was taught she must love Jesus more than
she loves anyone else and that love must
be conditional if it is to be holy as if
Holiness requires heartbreak as if God
Demands a broken family as proof of
devotion as if the pot only grows when
the cost is unbearable a father turns
his back not because he does not care
but because the church has told him that
care without compliance is rebellion
against God as if Mercy is allowed only
when you've jumped through the right
Hoops as if compassion must come with an
eternal contract a sister stops calling
a brother Whispers prayers instead of
opening his arms a friend becomes a
stranger like smoke slipping through the
cracks of memory once a home now a ghost
each relationship lost like a losing
hand discarded before the turn faith
demands
sacrifice that is the unspoken role
and the altar always wants more it's
never satisfied Never full the dealer
never says enough The Pit Boss never
clocks out and if it costs them their
blood if it costs them their peace if it
costs them the ones who knew them before
the Dogma sank its claws into them then
so be it they'll call it Divine even as
it empties them even as they Echo with
loneliness in the name of God they'll
say they're
winning while losing their ire
bankroll they'll call it righteousness
they'll call it carrying the
cross even though their shoulders ache
with inherited grief grief dressed up as
Glory it's like they think grief is just
a marker in the game it's a token to be
cashed in later for crowns and mansions
they will sit in their empty houses and
tell themselves it was worth
it the ache just means we're
holy to them the pale
was always supposed to be
invisible they will watch their children
walk away watch their brothers and
sisters Fade Into the distance of lives
lived freely where no one is asked to
anti up their soul just to be accepted
and they will say through clenched teeth
through unshed tears the Lord gives and
the Lord takes
away a phrase they like to repeat like a
spell to keep the guilt at Bay to keep
the questions of sleep beneath their
ribs a mantra like a losing Gambler at
the slots mumbling lucky phrases to
machines that never pay but deep in the
night when the prayers were spoken and
the lights are
out when the silence settles in like a
weight on your chest when the ghost of
their mother's laughter their father's
Embrace their child's voice calling for
them when those ghosts press against
them and Whisper was it worth
it they will bury their faces in their
hands
and Whisper
back I can't stop now I have to keep
going I have to keep gambling my life on
Jesus because they've already bet the
house they've already signed over their
hearts they've already mortgaged their
soul on a mythological long shot
admitting the bluff would mean mourning
the life they never lived the beauty
that they turned away the hands they
didn't hold the Forgiveness they never
gave themselves to fold now would mean
facing the reality that the the pot
they've been striving for never
existed and the house watches the house
Waits patient and still it's a seasoned
dealer with centuries of practice
shuffling the same deck of fear and
shame knowing the rules don't need to
change only the players do only the
hearts that are too afraid to fold
because in the house of holy waiters the
game is never over just passed down one
hand at a time
[Music]
they were born with a blank
slate a self yet to be written a soul
stretching its limbs for the first time
in the light hungry to dance to choose
to Simply Be An unshuffled hand
untouched chips a game waiting to begin
but before they could even play their
firstand before they could even choose
their seat at the table the rules were
set the bets were placed the game was
rigged against them scripted by a
counterfeit love the house set the odds
before they even knew what the stakes
were they were told who they were before
they had a chance to discover it stamped
sealed ordained a child of God a soldier
of Christ a sinner in need of saving
guilt handed to them like a
Birthright the dealer dealt them shame
as the start
hand the blind bet was guilt their name
was not their own but a borrowed
identity signed away a signature forged
in scripture and sealed with fear Bound
in the fine print of Salvation like
signing a player's card at a casino you
never chose to
enter they were baptized into the wager
into the belief that their soul was the
collateral their worth was tied to their
allegiance every breath belonged to a
dealer they never met but were taught to
call Father father a father who watched
not listened he was the Divine Pit Boss
in the sky tallying sins and blessings
with a poker
face and so they played they shaped
themselves to fit the M flattening their
voice to fit between the lines they
became their own cier enforcing the
rules against themselves erasing the
questions silencing the doubts rewriting
themselves in red letters so they could
belong to a story that made no room for
who they might become a script that only
knew how to repeat
itself a game with no wild cards no
Redal no exac Claus they bet everything
on a version of themselves that never
truly existed it's a paper thin echo of
someone they were told to be
fragile and bright but not
alive they went all in on a ghost hand
bluffing their way through a rigged
round and when they glimpsed to the
truth when the mirror reflected a
stranger when the mask cracked when the
self they had hidden began clawing its
way to the surface they panicked like
waking from a dream and forgetting how
to breathe like realizing you've
memorized someone else's heartbeat like
discovering the chips were counterfeit
all along because if they are not who
they were told to be then who are they
if the Bible does not define them if the
church does not own them if God is not
their maker then what is left who are
they what compass remains when the stars
were painted on the ceiling when the
heavens were hung like wallpaper what
strategy works when the table was only
an illusion their indoctrinated minds
think that asking the hard questions is
risking everything and that to step
outside the lines is to gamble with
damnation to walk without a map without
approval without
Applause they are defly afraid of facing
a world that won't offer them
Transcendent truths
they can't fathom the freedom of being
okay with not having all the answers
they can't imagine leaving the table
with nothing but their own name their
chips uncashed and unclaimed and so they
stay they play their part they keep
their voice low their curiosity chained
their doubts buried their intuition held
like a losing ticket at the Redemption
counter to them walking away would cost
more than just lost faith it would be
losing their very selves Exile from the
only World they were allowed to belong
to the exit is marked abandon all hope
ye who cash
out and to lose that feels like losing
everything so they grip the hand they
were dealt perhaps on some level knowing
it is not their own knowing the game is
rigged knowing the house is already won
but they feel compelled to keep playing
the
game perhaps the pot is too high the
sunk cost is too deep the chips are
already spent it's as if surviving the
cage just justifies never leaving
it and the house has found a way to keep
them playing to make them almost believe
that they can win at this losing game at
this sucker Gambit because in the casino
of The
Devout the longest Bluff
wins not the truest
[Music]
hand month after month year after
year they slide their chips across the
table dropping dollars into the hands of
men who promised
salvation but delivered nothing but
empty hands and open Palms fingers
curled like the Petals of a wilted
flower trembling with practiced
Grace the pot never grows in their
Direction the odds never shift in their
favor they call it tithing they call it
giving back to God but God has no need
for money only the men who claim to
speak for
him in their silk suits and fancy
watches their million-dollar churches
they preach about humility about
sacrifice about giving till it hurts
they play the house like seasoned sharks
holding a flesh while you bet blind they
say God will
provide but only after you
give after you stretch your paycheck
thin so the church can build another
Monument to itself
and so the Empire of Faith keeps
growing it's a spiritual Casino where
you can only win by losing
more when the money runs low when the
bills stack higher than the hymns when
the fridge is empty but the offering
plate is full they're told give in faith
and it will be returned to you
tenfold as if God runs a business with
matching funds where the Divine takes
IUS with interest
Heaven becomes a payout machine and
faith is just your Lucky Chip and they
give and they wait and they wait and
they wait and nothing comes no
floodgates of Heaven no Divine deposit
into their account no Mana raining from
the sky just the soft Silence of
unanswered devotion the hollow echo of a
promise they keep repeating to
themselves there's no jackpot there's no
cash out just house credit it buys
nothing but they keep digging deeper
because if they were to stop now it
would be admitting that they have funded
their own deception they have been
handing over their labor their time
their dreams to a system that's never
going to pay them
back this is a Sanctified Ponzi
scheme it's lined with velvet pews and
golden guilt it's a rigged table where
the dealer preaches
Prosperity but Pockets the winnings and
the offering plates pass by like a
casino waitress refilling drinks
keeping the gamblers comfortable
compliant controlled lulled by hope
drugged by obligation held in place by
the warmth of ritual and the fear of
lack Faith served like complimentry
chips just enough to keep you seated
they look at their hands shaking drained
calloused by generosity that was never
reciprocated tokens spent on empty reels
and still they tell themselves El you
have to stay
committed turning away from Jesus and
Yahweh would mean grieving every
dollar every tear every trust misplaced
every prayer prayed to the walls every
coin tithed like a blind bed on a
crooked wheel the house is smiling not
because it's necessarily
cruel but because it doesn't have to
lie it just
Waits it just Stacks the pot from every
Pew it banks on inertia it rides the
long con of Eternity and the faith will
keep playing because the jackpot is just
one prayer away one more spin of the
wheel one more bet on Divine Returns the
casino lights Shimmer the music
plays they stay
seated forgetting they were born to
build something sacred with their own
two hands
not bankroll someone else's
Throne not fund another sermon about
sewing while they reap
nothing not fuel a
casino of manipulated
[Music]
Faith they don't know if it's real but
they can't afford to be wrong they don't
realize that their belief is a bet a
blind wager placed in the dark chips
stacked with Trembling Hands guessing in
the dark about Transcendent
realities ultimately unaware that their
worldview is more mythology than truth
they don't keep the faith because it
makes sense or even necessarily because
they feel it deep in their bones they
keep the faith simply because they fear
the
alternative the void the bizarre and
overpowering freedom that would come
with walking away the terrifying Beauty
of standing alone beneath a sky that no
longer
watches what
if those are the two words that keep
them tethered what
if two words that build invisible bars
around the prison of their minds like
vines that wrap slowly gently until
breathing feels like betrayal until
Stillness feels like sin it's a mental
slot machine that always spins what if
what if what if what if there's a Heaven
what if there's a hell what if they walk
away now and Wake Up in Flames what if
eternity is just one bad decision away
what if folding the hand costs more than
they can afford what if the dealer is
watching waiting ready to call them out
the moment they fold ready to punish not
just Rebellion but the mere Act of
wondering the audacity to question the
hand they were
dealt a demigod working behind the
scenes counting chips and sins
they don't know they don't know so they
stay in the game too afraid to leave too
afraid of The Quiet on the other side of
certainty where no hymns ever play but
the air is honest they're too afraid to
cash out too afraid to see what's left
when the house credit runs dry they
convince themselves it's logical it's a
safe bet a Pascal's wager dressed in
Sunday clothes better to believe and be
wrong than to doubt and be damned better
to gamble on a ghost
than to lose sleep over the truth but
they don't see that they're not playing
to win they're playing to avoid losing
playing defense at the poker table of
the Soul folding their questions before
the cards are doubt trading joy for the
illusion of security sacrificing their
voice for a seat at someone else's table
a table where the Buy in is silence and
the payout is obedience a hollow Faith a
whispered prayer spoken in fear instead
of Love spoken like like an apology for
existing for being a human in a world
that demanded Angels a bargain a
transaction a backro deal with the deity
who never shows his hand A desperate
plea for insurance on a soul they aren't
even sure they own a soul they were told
was broken before it ever had the chance
to bloom cracked before its first
question what kind of God would call
this Faith what kind of divine being
would be fooled by a gambler's last
ditch bet what kind of Truth requires a
wager to make it seem worth believing a
gamble coated in trembling hope and
paralyzed devotion a threat wrapped in
Golden Light a game where the house Edge
is guilt and the Pod is never claimed
are you kidding
me still they pushed the chips forward
nod to the dealer repeat the same tired
refrain I believe I believe I believe
deal me in
again but it's not belief it's fear
dressed up as Faith it's a Superstition
spoken like a prayer rubbing the same
Lucky Chip an echo in a cathedral
they're too scared to leave it's a
prayer recited like our Superstition
it's a hedge against uncertainty it's a
life spent playing it safe never daring
to ask never daring to question never
daring to walk away from the table and
see what's outside the casino maybe
there's something out there where the
wild flowers grow in the cracks of what
you were told to fear where love does
not require permission
outside the air smells like Risk but
also like truth and when the doubts come
when the cracks begin to show when the
weight of the Wasted Years settles on
them like an old coat worn too long
threadbear tired lined with moments that
they never got to live they whisper
because it's all they've got left I
can't stop now I've come too far I've
got to keep gambling like a gambler with
nothing left but hope and borrowed chips
they
act like proximity to the LIE could
somehow make it
truth maybe survival was the same as
peace maybe staying is braver than
becoming you wish they could wake
up and the house sigh not from sorrow
but with the slow breath of something
ancient that doesn't perhaps truly care
if you believe but only that you stay
that you keep playing eyes down heart
folded chips on the
table it cares only that you keep
playing long enough to
forget get you were ever
[Music]
free the cards are marked bent at the
corners stained with confession edges
worn smooth from trembling hands that
once built dreams but now fidget with
fear still hoping to find meaning in the
shuffle they don't realize that the deck
was stacked long before they sat down
the dice are loaded tipped with
centuries of Dogma rolling toward
silence weighted with scripture Twisted
into shackles every throw lands in The
house's favor snake eye is for the soul
the wheel only spins in One Direction
and it's never in your favor no matter
how many prayers are whispered into the
spin no matter how many tears are folded
into the hyms they walk in heads bowed
hands trembling with hope hope carved
from sermons and held like breath
underwater hope that tastes like metal
like holding your breath too long in the
dark tokens clutched too tightly
desperate for the payout thinking that
they have a chance that the odds might
be fair that the dealer is playing by
the rules rules that they never got to
read only recite rules delivered with a
smile and nailed to their childhood like
Commandments fine print hidden in
Parables buried Beneath The Velvet of
ritual but the house writes the rules
cloaked in Holiness and fear writes them
with ink invisible to anyone who doubts
an instruction manual written in slight
of hand and Sacrament the house owns the
table bolted to the floor of a sanctuary
covered in guilt lined with silent gasps
a table where every seat faces the
pulpit and never the truth the house
chooses the winners names them blessed
and favored then counts the offering
plates measuring devotion in decimal
points and obedience in
Applause it's a payout only granted to
those who never cash out their
questions the house is never going to
lose because the house is Playing for
Keeps not for truth and truth here is a
currency far too unstable to be cashed
doubt is considered counterfeit
Redemption has a cover charge the pastor
grins from the pulpit a master of this
Con uh continuing to make promises as
long as his sheep keep on repeating the
same things keep on giving keep on
bowing their heads keep on kneeling keep
on being gullible and pliable as long as
you sing louder than your questions a
poker face with a Pulpit mic as long as
they keep
playing the church is built on
bets bets that the faithful will stay
bets that the doubters will fold
bets that no one will dare to stand up
and call the bluff to flip the table and
ask why The House Always Wins why the
dealer never weeps when the players do
why the jackpot always moves just Out Of
Reach and when the prayers don't work
when the healing never comes when the
promises unravel it's not the house
that's at fault it's always the player
you didn't pray enough you didn't
believe enough you didn't give enough
you didn't suffer beautifully enough
your grief wasn't Godly your doubt was
too loud your we weariness was
Unbecoming you didn't play your hand the
way the dealer demanded and the house
shifts the blame and invites you to spin
the wheel again and every loss is blamed
on your lack of faith not the Crooked
odds the house watches as they chase a
wi that was never on the table as they
pour in their lives their faith their
families their future their songs their
tears their sense of self their
curiosity their Longing To Be whole it's
just it's not enough it will never be
enough this is not a game of chance it's
a guarantee of loss the house is built
on Hunger on longing on the illusion
that if they stay just a little longer
play just a little harder give just a
little bit more they will finally win
finally be seen finally be safe finally
be loved in the way that they were
promised but never felt the jackpot is
always almost and the pale is always
after
death they don't win they can't win the
rules were never going to be fair
they're only meant to keep you seated
obedient quietly losing this is a faith
casino with no clocks no exits just
hymns on repeat and Hope on lay away and
still our friends our loved ones they
sit at the table emptying their pockets
clutching the last scraps of their
belief smoothing them like cards bent
from too many losses cards damp with
sweat soft with regret the losing hand
played far too long a bluff No One
Believes anymore they're whispering to
themselves
again I can't stop now I've come too
far I have put everything into the Bible
I've put everything into Father Son and
Holy Spirit I've put everything into the
Cross of Christ to stop would be to
stare directly into the truth and
realize the game was never yours to win
and again the house Smiles the kind of
smile that knows it never really had to
try that hard because desperation will
always deal itself in Lost Children
return to familiar cages hoping they've
changed and the lights never dim the
table never
closes and the house never
[Music]
folds the game is
rigged a slowburn Casino of Shame and
sanctity but it's not just money on the
table it's their mind their breath their
peace their laughter before it was
silenced their sense of safety in their
own skin their mental chips stacked
without consent bet on a game they never
agreed to
play their ability to sleep at night
without hearing The Echoes of sermons
telling them they're never enough never
whole never clean never loved without
condition never acceptable without a
apology the stakes are sanity and the
dealer plays
mercilessly never blinking or bleeding
only collecting smiling with the
confidence of someone who already won a
house that knows the odds are fixed the
players will always blame themselves
they wake up each morning already guilty
already in debt to a God who demands
more than they can ever give more than
is humanly possible more than love
should ever ask their spiritual credit
line is maxed out before breakfast every
thought is examined every desire judged
every mistake held against them like a
weighted diey that always lands on sin
no matter how gently it falls no matter
how honest the hand that rolled it
loaded dice disguised as holy conviction
they're taught to fear the very fabric
of their own mind the soft threads of
intuition and the fierce fire of reason
the longing to question the hunger to
grow doubt is a devil Whispering sadness
is a lack of faith trauma is just
another test to see if they'll praise
him through the pain a Divine experiment
where suffering is Sanctified and Agony
is mistaken for devotion this is a
psychological poker table where pain is
proof of
loyalty you're not allowed to question
to be angry to be tired to be human in
ways that cannot be packaged in Praise
in ways that don't look good from the
pulpit only bets that look like
blessings are allowed so they break
slowly silently in the spaces where no
one is looking behind closed doors
Behind Closed Hearts folding their truth
in on itself uh like a losing hand again
and again silence becomes a scream they
try to prey the Panic away try to rebuke
the depression cast out the demons that
are nothing more than chemical
imbalances misfiring neurons trauma
wrapped in scripture until it no longer
looks like pain and just another burden
to carry another test of faith Another
Mountain they're told they should move
with the mustard seed as if healing were
just about willpower and
worthiness as if healing were a jackpot
waiting for the right ritual
combination and when they collapse when
the weight is too much when they find
themselves curled up on the bathroom
floor Whispering these prayers that keep
going unanswered fighting tears they
aren't even sure they're allowed to cry
because sorrow feels like betrayal to
God and grief feels like heresy because
exhaust has been painted as Rebellion
they're told again and again it's your
fault not Gods Not the churches not the
theology that wired your brain for
self-destruction no you must have sinned
you must not have believed enough
trusted enough played the game right you
must have missed a spiritual anti or
fumbled the Divine dice roll you must
have missed a step in the dance of
obedience you must have blinked during
the miracle so they keep playing they
keep spinning the wheel hoping the next
spin wins the jackpot gambling with
their own minds trading rest for
righteousness identity for approval
freedom for forgiveness chasing coins of
Mercy in a machine built for
Burnout because again to leave the game
is to face the truth that you're
suffering was never part of a plan your
pain was never holy it was just human it
was just real it was just ignored it was
just inconvenient for those who needed
their
silence your mental health was
collateral in a game that you didn't
need to play
but you were forced into before you had
the words to say no before you even knew
you had a voice to raise before we knew
the chips were ours to keep but our
friends have been here too long they bet
too much to step away to reclaim their
minds to put the cards down and say no
more it would feel like a betrayal to
them strangely enough like a
defeat like walking away from God
dishonors the love that they longed for
and as if reclaiming their own peace
means forsaking their purpose as if
folding their hand of faith means they
never really played the game at all so
they
whisper through the sleepless nights
through the storm raging in their mind I
can't stop now I've got to keep gambling
I've just I've come too far I've got too
much at stake here the pot is too full
of their past because if this wasn't
holy then the ache was for nothing and
they're terrified of healing without
permission of dancing in the light
without a blessing of being whole
without being broken first of of cashing
out and discovering you were never
bankrupt to begin
with and
again the house watches waiting for the
next big bet waiting with patience
sharpened by
Centuries with pockets deep enough to
swallow another soul and silence soft
enough to be mistaken for
God a house that doesn't need to cheat
it only needs to convince you that doubt
is
[Music]
debt they are
addicts perhaps not to wine or pills or
powder their drug of choice is the rush
of
worship the hit of holy ecstasy the
shiver down the spine the euphoria of a
well-timed
Hallelujah a hit stronger than
adrenaline more seductive than sin more
dazzling than the casino lights on the
strip and they chase it the emotional
high of the altar call the tears rolling
down the cheeks as the music swells the
moment the pastor Whispers do you feel
him he is here he is with us their
breath catches baited by the Divine
Chasing Ghosts in the fog slot machines
of sound and sight promising redemption
in a key change and they do or at least
they think they do because belief is a
gamble with loaded Dice and they've been
taught The House Always Wins even when
the payout is emotional
illusion and the cost of walking away is
their Eternal Soul or so they've been
told it's an all-in kind of Faith with
no chance to walk away without loss and
the Bas drops in the bridge of the song
and the lights dim just right the voices
rise together like waves a liturgic of
longing choreographed like theater and
suddenly they're lifted Swept Away held
in something bigger than themselves a
warmth so convincing it feels Eternal a
spiritual jackpot blinking neon inside
their chest the emotional roulette wheel
finally hitting what feels like heaven
an ecstasy so engineered they forget
it's rehearsed and for a moment they're
convinced for a moment the doubts
dissolve the we disappears the world
makes sense shame takes a backseat logic
goes quiet fear is silenced and the
roulette wheel spins and everything
lands on Grace the wheel doesn't spin at
random it's designed to make hope
addictive every prayer is a poker chip
tossed in Hope every chor is a bet on
Heaven's silence and for a moment
they're sure absolutely breathlessly
sure like a gambler swearing the next
role is redemption they're banking on
Bliss they're afraid to
Blink they're praying like card counters
memorizing every miracle and Melody but
as you and I know all too well the
moment Fades the high wears off the cold
reality of Monday morning settles in and
their hands feel empty again as if the
spirit clocked out with the
band as if Divinity punched a Time cart
and left them holding mere Echoes
they're waking up with their pockets
Inside Out hung over from Glory these
emotional IUS Soul deep withdrawal
symptoms so they return to the pulpit to
the performance to the church like stage
actors hoping this time the tears will
be real rehearsing the Revival with the
desperation of someone who's down to
their last emotional dollar they're
bankrupt in spirit but they're still
feeding tokens into the
machine it's as if their Applause could
trigger God's Encore because if they can
just feel that way again if they can
just summon that certainty one more time
maybe this time it will stick maybe the
Fire won't go out maybe this time the
BET will finally pay out in peace maybe
this is the Sunday that the jackpot
lands maybe this is the sermon that
breaks the bank maybe this is when your
soul finally wins the lottery they tell
themselves it's the spirit it's
divine but deep down they
know it feels an awful lot like the rush
of a gambler waiting for the next win
like Grace on lway way waiting to be
claimed with enough emotional currency
every raised hand is a symbolic wager
every tear is a offering toward a
feeling they're trading tithes for
Transcendence they're banking on a
Feeling because they want to buy
eternity like the desperate pull of a
slap machine lever like that moment
before the dice leaves your trembling
fingers this might be the one this might
be the one time God shows up in more
than Sound and Lighting Maybe Maybe This
Time heaven will stop bluffing maybe
this time the veil will tear for real
not just in song Maybe This Time the
jackpot isn't just for a show and when
it isn't when the quiet returns and the
Goosebumps fade and the Music Stops and
you're left alone with your thoughts
that Echo a lot louder than any sermon
ever tried
to your thoughts were thunderous with
the
emptiness the wha ifs and Theos start to
load
up and they want why doesn't it
last why do I need
more why does God feel strongest when
the lights are low and the music is
high why does divine presence feel like
a performance
cue why does it feel like I'm folding
every Sunday just to stay in the game
why does faith feel rigged why do I feel
like I was born into a hustle that I
never chose like a poker table I was sat
at as a child I was forced to play with
without even knowing the rules but they
shove the questions aside because they
cannot afford to be wrong they cannot
afford to lose the one thing that ever
felt like
certainty walking away from this game
would feel like discarding the only hand
they were ever dealt losing their belief
in Jesus would feel like letting go of
gravity in a world built on control so
they chased the high again and again to
stop now is to admit that they were just
feeling feeling something not
experiencing something just feeling
something not encountering a cosmic
truth but bathing in emotional and
spiritual illusion they weren't
Sanctified they were just stimulated
they weren't convicted they were just
chemically lit up they weren't born
again they were just breathless and
broken in a room full of smoke and
mirrors they're just spinning reels and
praying for the jackpot of peace and
they line up for the next Revival the
next Mountaintop moment their hearts
rehearsing the rise the fall the tears
their Soul's hungry their heart's
addicted their doubts suffocating
beneath the weight of one more emotional
fix this is a sacred addiction masked
does devotion this is a habit disguised
as Holiness this is like spiritual sugar
it's sweet it's quick it's gone they're
betting their soul on cotton candy
theology this is high glycemic grace
these are emotional carbs this is faith
that spikes and crashes empty calories
of the Divine melting the moment that
truth touches them and as the music
swells again as their hands stretch up
to the sky as they beg for one more
glimpse of Eternity they whisper like an
addict again and
again I can't stop
now I'm In Too
Deep I've come too far this just has to
be
true they're too far into the wager
they're too deep into the bluff there
are too many chips on the table there's
too much of their identity wrapped in
this risk they're too deep in the
trance they're too vested in the
illusion that feeling something is the
same thing as being free and they're too
afraid to cash out they're too too proud
to admit the jackpot was fake they're
too terrified to ask what if real
Freedom isn't even found in this game
what what if freedom is found in Walking
Away
entirely and the house turns Up the
Volume drowns out the questions with
another chorus another Crescendo another
carefully timed story of A great miracle
because the house always knows how to
distract you from the
odds because nothing keeps you playing
like the memory of that first hit that
first Hallelujah High because they've
built the whole casino on your
Longing To Fe
alive because your your addiction is the
business model your loyalty is their
bankroll every spin Whispers you could
win this
time just don't look too closely at the
[Music]
cost they see signs in the static
patterns in the noise a whisper in the
Wind it wasn't there but must have
been because silence without a sender
feels too much like being forgotten
because Emptiness is too unbearable to
face without dressing it in a Divine
disguise they read the randomness like a
blackjack table searching for divine
tells they're trained to see God in the
randomness to read between the lines
until they find the message that they
desperately hope is waiting for them
they're clutching their faith like a
Tarot deck they're flipping verses like
Lucky Charms
anything to avoid facing the blank space
where meaning might not be they're
gamblers betting their hearts on hints
and half truths this is a spiritual
craps game where even a bad rooll gets
Sanctified a song on the radio a verse
that feels too perfect for the moment a
stranger words that land like prophecy
coincidence swallowed whole and called
Miracle they place bets on the butterfly
effect gambling that coincidence is
God's currency meaning conjured from
smoke certainty drawn From Shadows like
pulling constellations out of static and
calling it scripture they're reading tea
leaves in Sunday sermons decoding their
fate in fortune cookie verses they have
to believe it's real because if they
don't if this is just chaos if things
just happen without meaning if the
universe isn't Whispering secrets into
their ears then they are playing a game
with no rules with no guide book no
Divine hand tilting the odds and our
favor there's no house Edge to lean
against it's just blind beding on chaos
just luck and the Silence of the stars
and who wants to dance through this life
if no one's keeping score right and that
to them is
Unthinkable that to them is Terror
dressed in normaly that is the ache of
being awake in a world that might not be
watching they're betting it all on a
dealer who is never going to show up so
they stack the deck in their own minds
they turn a bad day into a test of faith
they turn a coincidence into
confirmation every pain becomes purpose
every loss becomes Divine Design it's as
if every busted flush was rigged for
sanctification and grief only counts if
it earns them some points in the cosmic
Casino it's as if suffering has to be
Sanctified to be
survivable because the alternative is
admitting that sometimes things just
happen no hidden Parable no moral payoff
just just the ache of being alive in
this universe just the breathless
Stillness of a world that moves on with
or without us they say trust in God's
will what they really trust in is their
ability to force the puzzle pieces to
fit to reshuffle every red flag into a
revelation to hold the illusion steady
with both hands even as it Quivers even
as their soul breaks under the weight of
all that it's pretending to hold like a
gambler on a cold streak bluffing belief
with every breath they ignore the red
flags the pastor's greed the shifting
doctrines the questions that never have
good answers they call it Faith but it's
really just Superstition in Sunday Best
they fold their discomfort into origami
faith and smile at the creases they
ignore their gut instinct they bury
their own reasoning because doubt is
just another Temptation right and
they've been taught that certainty is
the only way to win even if the game is
is rigged even if the pot has already
been claimed even if the jackpot is
hollow even if the prize is just another
mask worn by fear they say roll the dice
again that prayer went unanswered God
must be saying wait that person got sick
anyway God must have a bigger plan the
door slammed in their face God must be
testing their faithfulness everything is
a rouette spin every loss is repackaged
as a Divine delay this is gamblers logic
every loss is one step closer to a win
they flip every loss into a coded
message from God they're terrified of
Silence that means
nothing because to admit otherwise is to
feel the floor give way beneath their
Theology and fall through the trapo
where their soul once stood they mistake
their own longing for the voice of
God and like misreading a bluff and
losing everything still claiming it was
a strategy it's like they think yearning
itself is Holy and is Redemptive as if
needing something badly enough can
conjure it into being because the day
that they stop looking for signs is the
day that they have to admit that no one
is sending them and the dealer isn't
crooked there just isn't a dealer there
at all and they've been betting their
breath on an empty seat and so they play
on continuing to turn their Wishful
think into the voice of God they're
shuffling their soul into false hope
when everyone else is doing it it's
easier to keep placing bets than just
walk
away so they spin it all desperate for
divine contact hoping that the next
click the next flick of meaning will
save them from
meaninglessness they're looking for a
jackpot of
assurance always almost they're praying
with a gambler's desperation begging the
universe to please let this one be a
win when the doubts creep in and the
randomness feels too random and the
patterns stop making
sense they whisper not to God but to
themselves I can't stop now I've come
too far I have too much vested in this
this simply has to be
true whether it's true or
not there are too many chips down too
many false
tells too too much identity at stake too
much eternity tied to fragile guesses
too much sacrificed to stop dancing now
too many lifetimes wagered on a story
that can't be returned and the house
just keeps on quietly shuffling the
deck watching people reach again and
again for meaning in a hand of random
cards these cards that whisper promises
in one breath and vanish in the next and
our beloved ones just sit and keep
playing hoping that the next draw will
mean something more hit me again they
don't know how to live without the
wager Christians have forgotten how to
[Music]
fold they trade today for tomorrow they
trade flesh and breath for the weight of
these unseen promises they trade
everything real for the hope of
something better
after the present slips through their
fingers like coins into a collection
plate no receipt no return a blind bet
on a cosmic slot machine with no payout
schedule all
in they're told the jackpots coming the
prize is eternal every opportunity that
you missed every dream you set aside
every road not taken it's just a seat of
Faith it's an investment in the next
life when you will finally finally cash
in and cash in big
a Divine payout
taxfree but always
pending they're told that heaven has a
vault with her name on it the ultimate
payout this Celestial windfall if you
just keep anteing up keep pushing your
chips into the pot keep wagering not
just your behavior but your
identity every dream filed beneath the
phrase not yet someday they're stacking
their chips of potential on an alter of
delay afraid that dancing now might
disqualify them from dancing forever as
if happiness now might void the payout
later as if Delight is a risk that they
can't afford in this casino Joy becomes
a tell fulfillment becomes a red flag a
false jackpot luring Souls away from the
real table they're convinced that high
stake sacrifice equals Eternal dividends
and that that's the currency that buys
Celestial stock it's as if exist is an
Investment Portfolio managed by faith as
if the return on investment is measured
in Halos and golden streets this is a
spiritual slot machine that they're
afraid to stop pulling every prayer
every yes Lord is another Spin and they
tell themselves over and over it was
worth it my treasure is in heaven my
reward is coming they chant it like a
gambler eyes wide with conviction Hearts
tight with
hesitation for playing out the hands
like there's still one ace coming
they're doubling down the promises
hoping for a miracle there's no check in
the mail there's no Divine inheritance
there's no payout there's no confetti
falling from the Skies of Glory there's
no trumpet blast of validation there's
no Heavenly
Applause there's only The Echoes of a
life they could have lived but
didn't it's a silence thick with the
scent of unopen possibilities like old
letters from a future that they never
claimed
a ledger of Mayes and forfeited chances
a balance sheet soaked in regret marked
pending forever and when they see the
truth when they see the Wasted Years the
unopened doors the paths they never
walked the rooms they never entered the
songs they never let their body sing the
dances they choreograph perhaps in
dreams but never Dar to perform when the
fear Rises that maybe they bet on
nothing maybe they gambled it all away
for a
lie and
narrative that crumbles in their hands
this jackpot of
myth that the odds were never in their
favor they were always the last ones
in they silence it they swallow it down
they push it down they're pocketing a
losing ticket and pretending maybe it'll
still somehow turn out good they're
pretending that the payout is just
delayed not denied they know that this
is all rigged
but they just have to keep playing they
have to keep saying I can't stop
now I have gambled my life away in this
I have gambled my life and this just has
to be true this has to be a good bet
this has to be a good investment and the
house turns out the
lights
quiet cold
final leaving only the creek of the
empty chairs
the scent of all that might have been
the ghost of what they could have become
if they dared to live if they'd only
pushed back from the table put down
their cards and walked away into the
night with their whole selves intact
they have read the
conclusion many times in their own
Bible if Christ is not raised then they
are of all people to be most
pied again if Christ is not raised then
they are of all people to be most
pied Christians we implore
you
please stop gambling your lives
away over ancient
[Music]
mythology again
see you
[Music]