The Gumball Economy

Summarize: The First 
Room-Temperature 
Ambient-Pressure 
Superconductor 
Sukbae Lee1*, Ji-Hoon 
Kim1, Young-Wan 
Kwon2† 1Quantum 
Energy Research 

Centre, Inc., (Q-
centre, Inc.), B1, 46-
24, Songi-ro 23 gil, 
Songpa-gu, Seoul 
05822, Korea 2KU-
KIST Graduate School 
of Converging Science 
and Technology, 
Korea University, 
Seoul 02841, Korea 

Abstract For the 
first time in the 
world, we succeeded 
in synthesizing the 
room-temperature 
superconductor (Tc ≥
400 K, 127 oC) working
at ambient pressure 
with a modified lead-
apatite (LK-99) 

structure. The 
superconductivity of 
LK-99 is proved with 
the Critical 
temperature (Tc), 
Zero-resistivity, 
Critical current (Ic), 
Critical magnetic field
(Hc), and the 
Meissner effect. The

superconductivity of 
LK-99 originates 
from minute 
structural distortion
by a slight volume 
shrinkage (0.48 %), 
not by external 
factors such as 
temperature and 
pressure. The 

shrinkage is caused by
Cu2+ substitution of 
Pb2+(2) ions in the 
insulating network of
Pb(2)-phosphate and 
it generates the 
stress. It 
concurrently 
transfers to Pb(1) of 
the cylindrical 

column resulting in 
distortion of the 
cylindrical column 
interface, which 
creates 
superconducting 
quantum wells (SQWs) 
in the interface. The
heat capacity results 
indicated that the 

new model is suitable 
for explaining the 
superconductivity of 
LK-99. The unique 
structure of LK-99 
that allows the 
minute distorted 
structure to be 
maintained in the 
interfaces is the 

most important factor
that LK-99 maintains 
and exhibits 
superconductivity at 
room temperatures 
and ambient 
pressure. 
*stsaram@qcentre.co
.kr 
†ywkwon@korea.ac.kr

2 Introduction Since 
the discovery of the 
first 
superconductor(1), 
many efforts to 
search for new room-
temperature 
superconductors have
been carried out 
worldwide(2, 3) 

through their 
experimental clarity 
or/and theoretical 
perspectives(4-8). 
The recent success 
of developing room-
temperature 
superconductors with
hydrogen sulfide(9) 
and yttrium super-

hydride(10) has great 
attention worldwide, 
which is expected by 
strong electron-
phonon coupling 
theory with high-
frequency hydrogen 
phonon modes(11, 12). 
However, it is 
difficult to apply 

them to actual 
application devices in 
daily life because of 
the tremendously 
high pressure, and 
more efforts are 
being made to 
overcome the high-
pressure problem(13).
For the first time in 

the world, we report
the success in 
synthesizing a room-
temperature and 
ambient-pressure 
superconductor with 
a chemical approach to
solve the 
temperature and 
pressure problem. We

named the first room 
temperature and 
ambient pressure 
superconductor LK-
99. The 
superconductivity of 
LK-99 proved with 
the Critical 
temperature (Tc), 
Zero-resistivity, 

Critical current (Ic), 
Critical magnetic field
(Hc), and Meissner 
effect(14, 15). 
Several data were 
collected and 
analyzed in detail to 
figure out the puzzle
of superconductivity 
of LK-99: X-ray 

diffraction (XRD), 
X-ray photoelectron 
spectroscopy (XPS), 
Electron 
Paramagnetic 
Resonance 
Spectroscopy (EPR), 
Heat Capacity, and 
Superconducting 
quantum 

interference device 
(SQUID) data. 
Henceforth in this 
paper, we will report
and discuss our new 
findings including 
superconducting 
quantum wells 
associated with the 

superconductivity of 
LK-99.
ChatGPT
This paper by Sukbae 
Lee, Ji-Hoon Kim, and 
Young-Wan Kwon 
reports the 
successful synthesis 
of the world's first 

room-temperature 
superconductor that 
operates at ambient 
pressure. Named LK-
99, it has a critical 
temperature (Tc) of 
over 400K (or 127°C).
The 
superconductivity of 

LK-99, which has a 
modified lead-apatite
structure, was 
proven through a 
range of 
measurements 
including critical 
temperature (Tc), 
zero-resistivity, 

critical current (Ic), 
critical magnetic 
field (Hc), and the 
Meissner effect. 
These properties are
the hallmarks of 
superconductivity.
This material 
achieves 

superconductivity not
from external 
factors such as 
temperature or 
pressure but from a 
minute structural 
distortion caused by 
the substitution of 
Cu2+ ions for 

Pb2+(2) ions in the 
insulating network of
Pb(2)-phosphate. 
This substitution 
causes a slight 
volume shrinkage 
(0.48%), which 
generates stress 
that distorts the 

interface of the 
cylindrical column. 
This distortion 
creates 
superconducting 
quantum wells (SQWs)
at the interface.
Heat capacity results
indicated that this 

model effectively 
explains the 
superconductivity of 
LK-99. The unique 
structure of LK-99, 
which allows it to 
maintain these minute
distortions, is crucial 
for its ability to 

exhibit 
superconductivity at 
room temperatures 
and ambient 
pressure.
The researchers 
point out that 
previous attempts at 
developing room-

temperature 
superconductors, 
such as those 
involving hydrogen 
sulfide and yttrium 
super-hydride, were
not practical for 
everyday use due to 
the high pressures 

required. The 
successful 
development of LK-
99 solves this 
problem, marking a 
significant 
advancement in the 
field of 

superconductor 
technology.

superconductors, the
large absorption EPR 
signal appeared at a 
very low 
temperature and 
below 1000 Oe 

external magnetic 
field(53, 54), and we
also observed with 
YBCO and Bi2212. The 
signal below 1000 Oe 
external magnetic 
field can be 
interpreted as a 
signal by 

superconducting 
electrons(53, 54). 
Josephson installed a 
thin insulator 
between 
superconductors and 
discovered tunneling 
through which 
current flows. 

Tunneling occurred 
between the 
superconductors(55).
Likewise, if electrons
are moved by 
tunneling between 
SQWs, the resistance 
will naturally be 
zero. Tunneling 

between SQWs is 
likely to be possible, 
as SQWs are expected 
to be formed at 3.7 Å
~ 6.5 Å intervals in 
LK-99. According to 
Kim’s paper(52), he 
used 1250 K Debye 
temperature for his 

calculation of room-
temperature 
superconductor, 
which is mentioned 
for hydride in 1968 
by Ashcroft(56). 
Even in that case, he
argued that the 
electron-electron 

interaction 
contributes to the 
higher temperature 
superconductivity 
than the electron-
phonon interaction. In
LK-99 system, the 
applied current 
seems to be 

transported through 
the correlated SQWs 
of the cylindrical 
column via the 
tunneling process and
coherently 
transported in 3-
dimension with all 
SQWs together. The 

additional 13 
experimental results
and discussions on LK-
99 will be published 
immediately in the 
next paper, including 
an interesting 
controllable 
levitation 

phenomenon and the 
coexistence of 
magnetism and 
superconductivity, 
theoretical 
calculation, etc. LK-
99 will be an 
attractive substance 
for many researchers

that can solve 
various confusing 
puzzles such as the 
pairing process and 
coexistence with 
magnetism, etc., 
related to 
superconductivity. 
Consequently, why 

does LK-99 exhibit 
superconductivity at 
room temperature 
and ambient 
pressure? This is 
because the stress 
generated by the 
Cu2+ replacement of 
Pb(2)2+ ion was not 

relieved due to the 
structural 
uniqueness of LK-99 
and at the same time 
was appropriately 
transferred to the 
interface of the 
cylindrical column. In 
other words, the 

Pb(1) atoms in the 
cylindrical column 
interface of LK-99 
occupy a structurally
limited space. These 
atoms are entirely 
affected by the 
stress and strain 
generated by Cu2+ 

ions. Therefore, 
SQWs can be 
generated in the 
interface by an 
appropriate amount of
distortion(57) at room
temperature and 
ambient pressure 
without a relaxation. 

From this point of 
view, the stress due 
to volume contraction
by temperature and 
pressure is relieved 
and disappeared in 
CuO- and Fe-based 
superconductor 
systems because the 

relaxation process 
cannot be limited due
to the structural 
freedom. Therefore,
they need an 
appropriate 
temperature or 
pressure to limit the 
structural freedom 

and to achieve the 
SQW generation. The 
LK-99 is a very 
useful material for 
the study of 
superconductivity 
puzzles at room 
temperature. All 
evidence and 

explanation lead that
LK-99 is the first 
room-temperature 
and ambient-pressure
superconductor. The 
LK-99 has many 
possibilities for 
various applications 
such as magnet, 

motor, cable, 
levitation train, 
power cable, qubit 
for a quantum 
computer, THz 
Antennas, etc. We 
believe that our new 
development will be a
brand-new historical 

event that opens a 
new era for 
humankind.
ChatGPT
The researchers 
discuss how 
superconducting 
electrons are 
responsible for the 

signal they observed 
at a very low 
temperature and 
below an external 
magnetic field of 
1000 Oe. They draw 
an analogy with the 
concept of 
"tunneling" 

discovered by 
Josephson, in which a 
current can flow 
through a thin 
insulator installed 
between 
superconductors.
The paper argues 
that a similar 

tunneling process 
might occur in LK-99 
between 
Superconducting 
Quantum Wells (SQWs)
that are expected to 
form at intervals of 
3.7 Å ~ 6.5 Å. The 
current applied to 

the LK-99 system 
seems to be 
transported through 
these SQWs via the 
tunneling process and
is coherently 
transported in three
dimensions across all 
SQWs.

This 
superconductivity is 
possible because the 
stress generated by 
the substitution of 
Cu2+ ions for 
Pb(2)2+ ions is not 
relieved due to LK-
99's unique 

structure but is 
appropriately 
transferred to the 
interface of a 
cylindrical column. 
The Pb(1) atoms in 
this interface are 
entirely affected by
the stress and strain

generated by the 
Cu2+ ions, leading to 
the generation of 
SQWs in the interface
by an appropriate 
amount of distortion 
at room temperature 
and ambient pressure
without relaxation.

The researchers 
note that the volume
contraction due to 
temperature and 
pressure is not 
relieved in CuO- and 
Fe-based 
superconductor 
systems due to their 

structural freedom. 
Therefore, they 
require specific 
temperature or 
pressure to limit the
structural freedom 
and generate SQWs.
The paper concludes 
by stating that LK-

99 is the first room-
temperature and 
ambient-pressure 
superconductor. It 
has potential for 
various applications 
including magnets, 
motors, cables, 
levitation trains, 

power cables, qubits 
for quantum 
computers, THz 
Antennas, etc. The 
researchers believe 
their development 
will be a 
groundbreaking event

opening a new era for
humankind.

Could you give a 
metaphor or analogy 
to explain the 
proposed mechanism?
ChatGPT

Absolutely! Here's a 
simplified analogy 
that can help 
understand the 
concept. Imagine a 
crowded hallway in a 
school, with students
(electrons) trying to 
move from one end to

the other. Normally, 
the students bump 
into each other and 
the walls, causing 
resistance and 
slowing down their 
progress. This is 
similar to how 
electrons behave in 

normal conductive 
materials, where 
their movement is 
hampered by 
resistance, leading to
energy loss in the 
form of heat.
Now, let's introduce a
superconductor into 

the scenario. When 
the school installs an
advanced system of 
moving walkways (like
the ones in airports) 
that are precisely 
coordinated to help 
students glide 
smoothly along the 

hallway, students 
can move quickly and 
efficiently from one 
end to the other 
without bumping into 
each other or the 
walls. This results in
zero resistance, much
like the zero 

electrical resistance 
in a superconductor.
The distortion in LK-
99's structure, due 
to the substitution 
of Cu2+ ions for 
Pb2+(2) ions, can be 
compared to installing
these moving 

walkways. It creates 
'superconducting 
quantum wells' or 
special zones where 
the electrons can 
move freely without 
resistance. The 
novel thing about LK-
99 is that this 

system works at room 
temperature and 
ambient pressure, 
meaning we don't 
need to cool down 
the school (lower 
the temperature) or 
squeeze the hallways
(apply pressure) to 

make the walkways 
work. This is a major 
breakthrough in 
superconductor 
research.

Ok that is indeed 
significant if it is 
reproducible and can 

be done at an 
affordable cost.
ChatGPT
Yes, you're 
absolutely right. The
creation of a room-
temperature, 
ambient-pressure 
superconductor like 

LK-99 could 
revolutionize many 
aspects of 
technology, from 
energy transmission 
to computing. 
However, as you 
pointed out, the key 
challenges that lie 

ahead include 
reproducibility and 
affordability.
For this 
breakthrough to 
have widespread 
real-world 
applications, 
scientists must be 

able to consistently 
reproduce these 
results across 
different labs and 
conditions. 
Furthermore, the 
process for making 
this superconductor 
needs to be cost-

effective on a large 
scale.
Developing new 
materials, especially 
those with highly 
specialized properties
like superconductors,
often involves 
expensive processes 

and rare ingredients.
The challenge is to 
make these processes
more affordable and 
sustainable so that 
the benefits of such 
technologies can be 
enjoyed widely.

Research in this area
is ongoing, and if 
successful, we could 
witness a paradigm 
shift in various 
industries such as 
energy, 
transportation, and 
computing.

You’ll notice that 
when electrical 
objects run, they 
often emit heat. 
Take, for example, 
your phone when 
you’ve scrolled 
social media for too 

long – or your laptop 
trying to open 
Photoshop. As these 
objects work, some of 
their energy escapes 
as heat. This is 
considered wasted 
energy, and is thanks 
to resistance in the 

conductor. The 
distinction between a 
conductor and 
superconductor is 
that a 
superconductor 
transmits electricity 
without this wasted 
energy – in other 

words, its material 
faces no resistance, 
and will never 
generate any heat as 
electricity passes 
through it. Until July
2023, the 
superconductors that
scientists had 

created could only 
work at extremely 
low temperatures. A 
room temperature 
superconductor has 
been a long-sought 
goal for physicists 
because it could 
revolutionise our 

energy industries – 
and, increasingly, 
because this 
technology could 
very well allow us to
mitigate the effects 
of climate change. 
What’s The 
Discovery? On 22 July

2023, scientists from 
Korea University, 
Sukbae Lee, Ji-Hoon 
Kim and Young-Wan 
Kwon, published a 
pre-print paper 
detailing an exciting 
discovery: they’ve 
created the world’s 

first room 
temperature 
superconductor using 
a material dubbed 
‘LK-99’. Why Is This
Significant? If proven 
through 
reproduction, the 
LK-99 room 

temperature 
superconductor could
have seriously 
positive repercussions
for energy and the 
development of 
future technologies. 
Revolutionising The 
Energy Industry 

Electricity 
transmitted over a 
superconductor would
face little to no 
resistance, so could 
be transported over 
long distances very 
efficiently. This will
impact sustainability 

because there will be
less waste, and 
therefore less 
additional energy 
would need to be 
generated. In turn, 
this would lead to a 
decrease in 
greenhouse gas 

emissions from power 
generation. This 
technology could also 
help us better 
integrate renewable 
energy into the 
national energy grid, 
as one current 
challenge faced is 

how far renewable 
sources are from 
population centres. 
Should We Be 
Dubious? While 
exciting – and a 
hopeful discovery – 
the paper that was 
submitted is pre-

print, which means it 
has yet to go through
peer review. Similar 
work has faced 
serious scrutiny, and 
been disproven at 
this stage. The work 
of one University of 
Rochester 

researcher, who 
claimed to discover a 
similar 
superconductor in 
2021, saw his paper 
recently retracted 
upon the discovery of
errors and data 
fabrication. In 

addition, if the 
discovery cannot be 
repeated or scaled, 
its practical impact in 
the immediate will be
minimal. 
https://www.country
andtownhouse.com/cu

lture/ambient-
superconductor/
ChatGPT
Thank you for 
sharing this article. 
The piece does a 
great job of 
summarizing the 
significance of the 

discovery of LK-99, 
the first room-
temperature 
superconductor. It 
outlines the 
potential implications 
of this breakthrough
for the energy 
industry and 

emphasizes the 
importance of peer 
review in scientific 
discovery.
In the realm of 
energy transmission, 
a superconductor like
LK-99 could 
significantly boost 

efficiency by 
reducing energy lost 
as heat, thereby 
potentially reducing 
greenhouse gas 
emissions associated 
with power 
generation. 
Moreover, the 

technology could 
help address one of 
the key challenges in
the renewable 
energy sector — the 
distance between 
renewable energy 
sources and 
population centers.

However, as the 
article rightly points 
out, the findings are 
still in the pre-print
stage and have yet to
undergo peer review.
Previous studies on 
superconductors have
faced scrutiny and, 

