(base) 1 flyxion@volsorium:/mnt/c/Users/nateg/OneDrive/Documentos/projects/epistemology$ for file in * ; do     echo "Checking $file";
    ollama run mixtral "Summarize and criticize:" < "$file"; done
Checking x00
 Formal Epistemology is a subfield of philosophy that uses mathematical methods, particularly logic and probability, to analyze
epistemological questions. The book under consideration focuses on the application of probabilities to beliefs, rather than just
saying that someone believes something, we can say that they believe it with a particular probability. This approach is based on
the idea that people have different levels of confidence or certainty in their beliefs, and these differences should be taken
into account when describing and analyzing belief states.

The author argues that there are two main reasons why we need to use probability in our analysis of beliefs. Firstly, there is a
subjective feeling attached to being certain or uncertain about something. The feeling of uncertainty is less pleasant than the
feeling of certainty, which makes it important to think carefully about uncertainty. Secondly, our beliefs should be based on the
evidence we have, and we usually have more evidence for some things than others. As our evidence improves, our certainty should
increase gradually.

While the author's argument for using probability in analyzing beliefs is compelling, there are also some potential drawbacks to
this approach. One concern is that it may be difficult to accurately quantify the degree of belief or confidence someone has in a
particular proposition. People's subjective feelings about their own certainty can be influenced by many factors, including their
emotions, biases, and cognitive limitations. This makes it challenging to assign precise probabilities to beliefs.

Another concern is that using probability to analyze beliefs may lead to counterintuitive or paradoxical results. For example,
the principle of conditionalization requires that we update our beliefs in light of new evidence by multiplying our prior belief
in a hypothesis by the likelihood of the evidence given the hypothesis. However, this can lead to situations where our posterior
beliefs seem to conflict with our intuitions or common sense.

Overall, while there are some potential drawbacks to using probability in analyzing beliefs, it is still a valuable tool for
formal epistemologists. By taking into account the different levels of confidence that people have in their beliefs, we can gain
a more nuanced and accurate understanding of belief states and how they are affected by evidence and reasoning.

Checking x01
 The author of this text presents an argument for using probabilities to model beliefs, which they refer to as the "Bayesian
approach." The author argues that beliefs come in degrees and are not simply all-or-nothing. They use examples to illustrate how
the strength of one's belief can affect their actions, even if they do not fully believe something to be true. The text then goes
on to summarize the contents of a book on this topic, which covers concepts such as probability, confirmation, and conditional
belief.

One potential criticism of this argument is that it assumes that beliefs can be accurately represented by numbers, specifically
probabilities. This may not always be the case, as there may be cases where it is difficult to assign a specific probability to a
belief. Additionally, the use of probabilities to model beliefs may not capture the full complexity of human belief and
decision-making.

The author also suggests that certain chapters in the book may be skipped, depending on the reader's interests. For example, they
suggest that students who are primarily interested in how probabilism is relevant to classic problems of epistemology could focus
on Chapters 1, 4, 12, and 13. However, this may not be the best approach for all readers, as it may result in a lack of
understanding of key concepts and frameworks that are presented earlier in the book.

Overall, the text presents an argument for using probabilities to model beliefs and provides an overview of a book on this topic.
While there are potential criticisms of this approach, the author's emphasis on the importance of understanding how beliefs are
formed and influenced is valuable.

Checking x02
 The text introduces the concept of using probabilities as a measure of degree of belief, ranging from 0 (no belief) to 1
(complete certainty). An agent's beliefs can be represented in a Venn diagram, with the size of the overlap between two
propositions indicating the degree of belief in their intersection. The text also introduces the concept of epistemic possibility
and explains conditional probability and conditional belief.

One potential criticism is that the text assumes the use of probabilities as a measure of degree of belief without justifying
this choice or considering alternative methods. Additionally, the Venn diagram used to explain conditional belief may not be
easily understood by all readers, particularly those unfamiliar with probability theory. The text could benefit from more
examples and concrete applications to help clarify these concepts.

Checking x03
 The text discusses conditional belief and confirmation using probability theory. It explains that the degree of belief in a
hypothesis (H) given some evidence (E) can be calculated as the probability of both H and E divided by the probability of E. If
this conditional degree of belief is higher than the unconditional degree of belief in H, then the evidence confirms the
hypothesis. This is known as the "degree-of-belief-raising theory of confirmation."

The text highlights several features of this theory:

1. Evidence can confirm a hypothesis without making it very likely, as long as it makes it more likely than it would have been
otherwise.
2. The increase in belief can be tiny.
3. A piece of evidence can confirm multiple, mutually exclusive hypotheses.
4. Confirmation does not require causation, only correlation.
5. Evidence can confirm a hypothesis without confirming everything that the hypothesis entails.

While the degree-of-belief-raising theory provides a clear and systematic way to understand confirmation, it also differs from
colloquial uses of "confirm" and may seem counterintuitive in some cases. For instance, an increase in belief as small as 0.00001
still qualifies as confirmation according to the theory. Additionally, an item of evidence can confirm two mutually exclusive
hypotheses, which might seem contradictory. Critics argue that these features stretch the meaning of "confirmation" too far and
may lead to confusion.

In summary, the text discusses a systematic approach to understanding conditional belief and confirmation based on probability
theory. While this theory is clear and logical, it also differs from colloquial uses of "confirmation," potentially leading to
misunderstandings.

Checking x04
 This passage introduces the concept of beliefs as concrete physical structures in the brain, represented by connections between
neurons. It explains how we can know about other people's beliefs through their observable behaviors and actions, such as
speaking or betting behavior. The degree to which someone is willing to bet on a belief reflects their level of certainty in that
belief. The passage also mentions Bayes' theorem and the base rate fallacy as important concepts in understanding probability and
belief.

One potential criticism of this view is that it seems to reduce beliefs to mere probabilities, without taking into account other
factors that may influence someone's beliefs, such as their personal experiences, values, or cultural background. Additionally,
the passage suggests that we can accurately determine someone's beliefs based on their behavior, but this may not always be the
case. People may not always act consistently with their beliefs, and there may be ambiguity or uncertainty in interpreting
someone's behavior or actions. Furthermore, while betting behavior can provide insight into someone's level of certainty in a
belief, it may not capture the full complexity of their belief or the reasons behind it.

Checking x05
 The passage discusses the importance of using Bayes' theorem and the law of total probability to correctly calculate conditional
probabilities. It then uses an example of a disease test result to illustrate how people often make the mistake of ignoring the
prior probability and focusing only on the likelihood of the hypothesis given the data. This can lead to incorrect conclusions,
as shown in the Linda problem where people mistakenly judge the conjunction to be more probable than one of the conjuncts. The
passage then provides several exercises that require applying Bayes' theorem or related concepts.

One possible criticism of the passage is that it assumes the reader is already familiar with Bayes' theorem and the law of total
probability, which may not be the case for all readers. Additionally, some of the exercises assume knowledge of specific
probabilities that were not provided in the passage, such as P(E) in exercise 5. Finally, while the passage emphasizes the
importance of using Bayes' theorem to avoid fallacious reasoning, it does not provide any concrete strategies for how to do this
in practice beyond "avoid fixating on the likelihood of the hypothesis given the data."

Checking x06
 The text discusses the concept of "acceptance" as an alternative to the idea that beliefs are all-or-nothing. Acceptance has two
key features: first, agents can only have one of three relationships with a hypothesis (accept it, accept its negation, or
withhold acceptance); and second, accepting a hypothesis means eliminating from consideration any hypotheses inconsistent with
it. The text gives two reasons for using the concept of acceptance: ordinary language and cognitive limits. In ordinary language,
people tend to talk about beliefs in terms of acceptance rather than degrees of belief. Additionally, accepting a hypothesis can
be valuable in everyday life and scientific research because it eliminates the need for complex calculations involving
probabilities of background assumptions.

One potential issue with this concept is that it may lead to the Lottery Paradox, which occurs when an agent accepts a hypothesis
that is individually likely but collectively unlikely. The text suggests several possible ways to resolve this paradox, such as
distinguishing between practical and theoretical reasoning or adopting a more fine-grained notion of acceptance.

The advanced questions touch on the relationship between probability and conditional probability, as well as the subjectivity of
confirmation. These are complex topics that require a deeper understanding of probability theory and decision theory.

Overall, the text provides a useful introduction to the concept of acceptance as an alternative to all-or-nothing beliefs.
However, it is important to note that this concept is not without its own challenges and paradoxes.

Checking x07
 The Threshold Theory of Acceptance suggests that an agent rationally accepts a hypothesis if their degree of belief in the
hypothesis is greater than some threshold. However, this theory faces the Lottery Paradox, which arises when we consider a
lottery with 100 tickets and assume that the probability of any given ticket losing is 0.99. According to the Threshold Theory,
an agent should accept that each ticket will lose, but this leads to a contradiction when we conjoin these beliefs and compare
them to the knowledge that exactly one ticket will win.

One response to the Lottery Paradox is to increase the threshold t, but this only delays the problem, as it can be shown that
there will always be a large enough lottery that produces the same paradox for any value of t less than 1. The root of the
problem lies in the mismatch between probabilistic degrees of belief and Acceptance Closure, which states that if an agent
rationally accepts two hypotheses, they should also accept their conjunction. These two principles tend to conflict, leading to
the paradoxical conclusion that an agent should accept a contradiction.

Another response to the Lottery Paradox is the Certainty Theory of Acceptance, which sets t = 1 and therefore only allows for
acceptance when an agent has absolute certainty in a hypothesis. However, this theory is overly restrictive and may not allow for
rational acceptance in many situations where there is strong but not absolute evidence in favor of a hypothesis.

In summary, the Threshold Theory of Acceptance faces the Lottery Paradox, which arises from the mismatch between probabilistic
degrees of belief and Acceptance Closure. While increasing the threshold or adopting the Certainty Theory may provide partial
solutions, they are not fully satisfactory and further exploration is needed to reconcile these principles.

Checking x08
 Acceptance is the mental state of taking a proposition to be true. It differs from degree of belief in that acceptance implies a
certainty or complete conviction, whereas degree of belief allows for varying levels of confidence. The Certainty Theory of
Acceptance states that an agent rationally accepts a hypothesis if and only if their degree of belief in the hypothesis is 1.
This theory solves some problems of the Threshold Theory but introduces new ones, such as the fact that people can have different
degrees of certainty for hypotheses they accept, and it's hard to think of anything one is completely certain of.

The arguments against the Certainty Theory of Acceptance suggest that the concept of acceptance may not be useful in
philosophical discussions, as it would result in accepting very few or no hypotheses due to our limited knowledge and cognitive
abilities. Instead, probabilistic concepts are recommended for modeling how ideally rational agents behave.

Study questions:

1. Acceptance is the mental state of taking a proposition to be true, while degree of belief refers to varying levels of
confidence in the truth of a proposition.
2. The Threshold Theory of Acceptance states that an agent rationally accepts a hypothesis if and only if their degree of belief
in the hypothesis is greater than some threshold t.
3. Acceptance closure means that if an agent accepts two hypotheses, they should also accept any logical consequences of those
hypotheses. This ensures consistency in accepting beliefs.
4. The Lottery Paradox arises when an agent rationally accepts that a specific ticket will lose in a fair lottery but still
believes that at least one ticket will win, which leads to inconsistency.
5. Answers may vary, depending on personal preferences and arguments presented in class or readings.

Advanced questions:

6. Other definitions of acceptance might include taking the proposition as true for practical purposes, acting as if it were
true, or relying on its truth for decision-making.
7. Arguments against acceptance closure could be based on the complexity of logical consequences, the difficulty in keeping track
of all possible consequences, or the desire to maintain flexibility in belief revision.
8. Yes, the concept of acceptance could still be useful when modeling ideally rational agents if it provides a clear and
consistent way of representing beliefs that is helpful for certain discussions or analyses. However, probabilistic concepts are
generally preferred due to their greater flexibility and applicability.

Checking x09
 This text discusses the concept of rationality as it applies to an agent's degrees of belief, which are a measure of how
strongly an agent holds a particular belief. The King of Hy-Brasil in Erik the Viking is described as irrational for failing to
believe that his island can sink, despite evidence to the contrary. Probabilism is presented as one of the key rationality
constraints for an agent's degrees of belief, meaning that an agent's degrees of belief should satisfy the rules of probability.
These rules include nonnegativity (degrees of belief must be greater than or equal to 0), normalization (beliefs in tautologies
should have a credence of 1), and finite additivity (the degree of belief in the disjunction of two incompatible propositions is
equal to the sum of their degrees of belief). The text goes on to discuss potential objections to probabilism, including the
logical omniscience objection (which argues that it is unreasonable to expect an agent to have a degree of belief of 1 in all
mathematical and logical truths) and the claim that normalization requires too much of rationality. The text suggests that finite
additivity is the rule that gives probability theory its power, as it connects degrees of belief to each other and imposes a
structure on an agent's beliefs.

One potential criticism of this text could be that it assumes that probabilism is the correct approach to understanding
rationality, without sufficiently considering alternative approaches or justifying why probabilism is the most appropriate
framework. Additionally, some of the objections to probabilism (such as the logical omniscience objection) are not fully
addressed or resolved in the text, leaving open questions about how these issues might be resolved. Finally, the text could
benefit from more concrete examples or applications of probabilism and the rules of probability, which would help illustrate
their relevance and usefulness in practical situations.

Checking x10
 The Dutch Book Argument is a historically influential argument for probabilism, which states that anyone who violates the rules
of probability is susceptible to a sure monetary loss. A Dutch Book is a series of bets that guarantee a loss for the bettor,
regardless of the outcome of the events being bet on. The Dutch Book Theorem, which underlies this argument, states that if a set
of betting prices violates the rules of probability, then there is a Dutch Book consisting of bets at those prices.

The rules of probability, when applied to betting prices, include nonnegativity (betting prices must be non-negative),
normalization (the betting price for a tautology should be equal to the payout), and finite additivity (the betting price for a
disjunction of two incompatible events should be the sum of their individual betting prices). Violating any of these rules can
result in a Dutch Book being created, leading to a guaranteed loss for the bettor.

One possible criticism of the Dutch Book Argument is that it relies on the assumption that rational agents will always avoid sure
losses. While this may be a reasonable assumption in many cases, there may be situations where an agent is willing to accept a
sure loss in order to achieve some other goal or satisfy some other preference. Additionally, the Dutch Book Argument focuses on
monetary losses and does not directly address other potential consequences of violating the rules of probability.

Overall, the Dutch Book Argument provides a compelling reason for agents to follow the rules of probability in their betting
behavior. However, it is important to recognize that this argument relies on certain assumptions and may not apply in all
situations.

Checking x11
 The Dutch Book Argument is a philosophical argument for probabilism, which states that an agent's degrees of belief should
conform to the rules of probability. The argument consists of three premises:

P1. An agent's degrees of belief should be matched by their betting prices.
P2. If there is a Dutch Book consisting of bets at an agent's betting prices, then the agent is susceptible to a guaranteed loss.
P3. If an agent is susceptible to a guaranteed loss, then they are irrational.

The argument concludes that if an agent's degrees of belief violate the rules of probability, then the agent is irrational (C).
The objection to P1 argues that there are cases where an agent's degrees of belief should not be matched by their betting prices
due to the role of utility. A response to this objection is to reformulate the argument in terms of utility or stipulate that the
argument only applies to "simple agents" whose utility is proportional to their money. The objection to P2 argues that an agent
can avoid a guaranteed loss by refusing to bet, and the objection to P3 argues that being susceptible to a sure loss does not
necessarily imply irrationality.

The Dutch Book Argument has been criticized for its assumptions about betting behavior, the role of utility, and the relationship
between rationality and susceptibility to guaranteed losses. Additionally, some argue that the argument is overly formalistic and
fails to capture the complexity of real-world decision-making. Overall, while the Dutch Book Argument provides a useful framework
for understanding probabilism, it should be approached with caution and considered in conjunction with other philosophical
perspectives on rationality and decision-making.

Checking x12
 The text discusses two ways to deny P3 (if an agent's subjective probabilities do not obey the probability axioms, then the
agent is open to a Dutch book) and argues that they both face issues. The first approach tries to show that having degrees of
belief that violate the rules of probability can have upsides, but the example given (an eccentric billionaire giving money to
those who violate probability rules) is not directly related to the epistemic irrationality of such beliefs.

The text then moves on to de-pragmatized Dutch Book Arguments, which focus on beliefs instead of practical issues like losing
money. Two attempts are discussed:

1. Christensen's argument: This argument relies on simple agents who care only about money and the concept of sanctioning as fair
a set of betting prices. While this avoids earlier problems, one might argue that what an agent sanctions as fair depends not
only on their beliefs but also on their preferences.
2. Dutch Book Argument as revealing inconsistency: This view suggests that violating Finite Additivity leads to inconsistent
beliefs and valuing the same thing at different prices. However, this approach has limitations, as it does not easily apply to
agents who violate Nonnegativity or Nonnormalization, and the revealed inconsistency is still not purely epistemic since it
depends on preferences (which involve desires).

The text highlights that these attempts to create de-pragmatized Dutch Book Arguments still face challenges in providing a direct
argument for probabilism focused solely on beliefs.

Checking x13
 The Joyce's Accuracy Argument for Probabilism is an argument for the rules of probability based on epistemic goals and accuracy
measurement. According to this argument, if a set of beliefs violates the rules of probability, then it is dominated by another
set of beliefs that doesn't, making it irrational to hold dominated sets of beliefs. The Accuracy Theorem, which states that if a
set of beliefs violates the rules of probability, it is dominated by one that doesn't, is used to defend this argument.

However, there are objections to this argument. For instance, an agent may have good reasons not to move toward the dotted line
representing probabilistic beliefs and instead stay at a nonprobabilistic position. Joyce argues that evidence justifies moving
horizontally rather than vertically, but Fitelson and Easwaran disagree.

The Representation Theorem Argument is another argument for probabilism that focuses on preferences and choices of an agent. This
argument states that if an agent's preferences violate the rules of probability, then there is a representation theorem that can
represent their preferences in a way that satisfies these rules, making it rational to follow them.

Overall, while both arguments provide reasons for adhering to the rules of probability, they are not without objections and
critiques. The debate around probabilism and its justification continues as new arguments and perspectives emerge.

Checking x14
 This passage discusses the Representation Theorem Argument for probabilism, which states that if an agent is rational, their
degrees of belief must satisfy the rules of probability. The argument relies on three premises: Preference Consistency, the
Representation Theorem, and Representation Accuracy.

Preference Consistency assumes that an agent's preferences satisfy certain constraints (C), including Completeness, Transitivity,
Continuity, and Independence. However, the passage mentions two objections to this argument: rejecting Preference Consistency by
challenging one or more of the constraints C, specifically Independence; and rejecting Representation Accuracy.

Allais's Paradox is given as an example of violating Independence, where people tend to choose differently between two options
depending on whether there are other irrelevant alternatives present. The passage explains that this behavior can be attributed
to the way humans perceive losses as more painful than gains, leading them to make different choices in Choice 1 and Choice 2.

The second objection, rejecting Representation Accuracy, questions the assumption that if an agent's preferences can be
represented as resulting from degrees of belief B, then their actual degrees of belief are indeed B. The passage cites Hájek
(2008b) for developing this concern and suggests that there is a difference between acting as if something is true and it being
true.

In summary, the Representation Theorem Argument for probabilism assumes that an agent's preferences must satisfy certain
constraints (C), and that their actual degrees of belief can be inferred from their preferences. However, objections to this
argument include violations of Independence (as seen in Allais's Paradox) and questioning the validity of Representation
Accuracy. This passage highlights the complexities in relating an agent's preferences to their actual degrees of belief.

Checking x15
 The text discusses the concept of probabilism in epistemology and its justifications through Dutch Book, Accuracy, and
Representation Theorems. However, each argument has its drawbacks. The Dutch Book Argument is pragmatic rather than epistemic,
the Representation argument's constraints might not be rationally required, and the Representation Accuracy view may not align
with most contemporary philosophers' realist theory of belief.

The Accuracy Argument is promising but has not yet achieved a consensus on its success. Meanwhile, probabilism is a weak
constraint on rationality, allowing for unusual beliefs like one's navel governing the universe or suddenly changing one's mind
without reason. An alternative perspective is considered: unsharp values, where degrees of belief take intervals instead of sharp
values (e.g., 0.4 to 0.6). This idea stems from cases where evidence doesn't justify a sharp degree of belief due to sparse or
nonspecific information.

Elga argues against unsharp values by presenting a Dutch Book Argument. He claims that an agent with unsharp values would accept
a series of bets leading to a guaranteed net loss, which is rationally forbidden. This argument implies that degrees of belief
should always be sharp.

However, this summary and critique argue that Elga's assumption about accepting both bets may not hold true in real-life
scenarios due to various factors like risk aversion or limited resources. Moreover, unsharp values could represent a range of
possible beliefs rather than arbitrary choices, offering more nuanced perspectives on uncertain situations. Ultimately, the
debate between sharp and unsharp values continues, contributing to ongoing discussions about rationality and belief in
epistemology.

Checking x16
 This passage discusses an argument by Elga against unsharp degrees of belief, which are degrees of belief that do not correspond
to precise probabilities. Elga argues that unsharp degrees of belief can lead to accepting neither of two bets that should be
accepted, which he claims is irrational. The passage also presents an objection to Elga's argument, which asserts that a sequence
of actions, rather than individual actions, can be assessed for rationality. Elga replies that this view has implausible
implications.

The passage goes on to discuss probabilism, which is the view that degrees of belief should conform to the laws of probability.
It also mentions the Dutch Book argument for probabilism, which states that if an agent's degrees of belief do not conform to the
laws of probability, then it is possible to construct a set of bets (a "Dutch book") that would guarantee a loss for the agent,
regardless of the outcome. The passage also mentions the Accuracy/Representation Theorem Argument for probabilism, which argues
that degrees of belief should conform to the laws of probability because doing so maximizes the accuracy or expected accuracy of
those beliefs.

The passage concludes by introducing the concept of conditionalization, which is the principle that an agent's degrees of belief
after learning some new evidence should be equal to their earlier degrees of belief, conditional on that evidence. It also
mentions the Dutch Book argument for conditionalization and objections to it.

There are several questions at the end of the passage for further study and discussion, including questions about the
plausibility of logical omniscience, the pragmatic versus epistemic nature of the Dutch Book argument, and possible responses to
objections to the Accuracy Argument and conditionalization. The passage also provides suggestions for further reading on these
topics.

Checking x17
 The text discusses the concept of conditionalization in Bayesian epistemology, which is the process of updating beliefs when new
evidence is learned. According to orthodox Bayesians, this is the only rational way for beliefs to change over time. The main
argument for conditionalization is a Diachronic Dutch Book Argument, which states that if an agent's credence in a hypothesis
after learning some evidence does not match their earlier conditional credence in that hypothesis given that evidence, they can
be Dutch-Booked, meaning they are guaranteed to incur a loss. This argument is based on the idea that an agent's degree of belief
in a hypothesis should match the fair odds of a bet on that hypothesis.

One objection to this argument is that it relies on the assumption that an agent's degrees of belief can be represented by fair
betting quotients, which not all philosophers accept. Another objection is that the argument assumes that the value of a set of
bets is determined by the net gain or loss they result in, but some philosophers argue that other factors, such as the regret an
agent may feel for making certain bets, should also be taken into account.

Another way to update beliefs is through Jeffrey conditionalization which allows for a more general update of beliefs when
learning new evidence, it does not commit to everything we learn having probability of 1, but it is less intuitive and harder to
work with.

In summary, the Diachronic Dutch Book Argument is an attempt to justify conditionalization as the only rational way for beliefs
to change over time, but it faces objections regarding the assumption that degrees of belief can be represented by fair betting
quotients and the value of a set of bets being determined solely by net gain or loss. Additionally, Jeffrey conditionalization
offers an alternative way to update beliefs when learning new evidence, but it is less intuitive and harder to work with.

Checking x18
 The passage discusses three objections to Diachronic Dutch Books, which are a tool for demonstrating the irrationality of an
agent's belief updating process.

1. The first objection, raised by Maher (1992), suggests that agents can avoid a Dutch Book by refusing to bet with bookies who
have not disclosed their strategies in advance. However, this does not solve the problem entirely because, before learning new
evidence E, the agent believes H with 60% certainty given E. If she later learns E, her credence in H will be only 50%. By her
current pre-learning perspective, this would be mistaken. To avoid expected losses, the agent can bet on H given E (Bet 2),
ensuring a guaranteed small loss but avoiding the chance of a large loss.

2. The second objection, presented by Van Fraassen (1984), highlights that if a bookie is to make these bets, they must know in
advance whether PE(H) is more or less than P(H|E). Depending on this condition, the bookie will offer either Bet 2 on H or not-H.
Van Fraassen argues that there is nothing inherently irrational about changing beliefs over time; therefore, Diachronic Dutch
Books don't necessarily indicate irrationality.

3. The third objection, by Christensen (1991), builds upon Van Fraassen's argument and claims that there should be no expectation
for an agent's present and future belief functions to cohere. Therefore, the potential vulnerability to a Diachronic Dutch Book
does not signify irrationality.

Briggs (2009) disagrees with this perspective, arguing that beliefs held at different times should cohere, as Bayesian decision
theory should be useful for inference and planning. Briggs proposes a weaker form of diachronic coherence that does not demand
agents never change their beliefs but rather avoid senseless or insupportable changes by their current standards.

Despite these objections to Diachronic Dutch Books, conditionalization remains a plausible principle for belief updating.
However, the persuasiveness of this argument is still debated.

Checking x19
 Conditionalization is a principle in Bayesian epistemology that suggests the only rational way to change one's degrees of belief
is by adopting the conditional credence, P(H|E), as one's new credence for H after learning E and nothing else. However, Frank
Arntzenius (2003) offers a counter-example called "Waiting for a train," where a person's credence that a train isn't coming
increases as they wait, but this change is not due to conditionalization because no new evidence was learned. Bradley (2011)
argues that the person did learn something new - the proposition that the train hasn't arrived by the time their credence that
it's after noon reaches 30%. This allows for conditionalization on this new proposition, resulting in a shift in credences.

Study questions:

1. Conditionalization is a principle that suggests updating one's beliefs by adopting the conditional credence P(H|E) as one's
new credence for H upon learning E and nothing else.
2. An argument against conditionalization could be that it may not always result in accurate or reasonable belief updates,
especially when prior probabilities are not well-calibrated or there is a lack of relevant evidence.
3. A diachronic Dutch Book is a sequence of bets that, if accepted by a rational agent, would result in a guaranteed loss for the
agent over time. It serves as an argument for conditionalization, suggesting that failing to update beliefs according to the
principle can lead to inconsistencies and poor decision-making.
4. An argument against diachronic Dutch Books could be that they may not always be practical or relevant in real-world
situations, where information is often incomplete or uncertain. Additionally, it could be argued that accepting a series of
losing bets does not necessarily imply irrationality if the agent has good reasons for their beliefs.

Advanced questions:

1. A Dutch Book Argument for Jeffrey conditionalization involves demonstrating that failing to update beliefs according to this
principle can lead to a sequence of bets resulting in a guaranteed loss, similar to diachronic Dutch Books.
2. Diachronic Dutch Books may be less persuasive than synchronic Dutch Books since they require a series of bets over time, while
synchronic Dutch Books involve a single set of bets at a given moment. This difference could make synchronic Dutch Books more
intuitive or easier to understand.
3. Briggs argues that agents should be diachronically coherent, meaning their beliefs should be consistent not just at a single
moment but also over time. However, this argument can be criticized for being too demanding and potentially limiting the
flexibility of an agent's belief system.
4. Bradley is correct that waiting for a train does not refute conditionalization, as it can be explained by the principle
through the introduction of a new proposition based on the passage of time. However, this counter-example highlights the
importance of considering various ways in which evidence can be interpreted or represented when applying conditionalization.
5. Other counter-examples to conditionalization could include situations where an agent's prior probabilities are poorly
calibrated or biased, leading to inconsistent belief updates. These cases might require alternative updating principles or
additional rationality constraints to ensure coherence and accuracy.

Checking x20
 Subjectivism, as described here, posits that rationality is only constrained by probabilism and conditionalization, while
inductivists argue that there are additional constraints on rationality in the form of objective relations of justification
between evidence and propositions. These objective relations are expressed through inductive probabilities, which agents' degrees
of belief ought to match.

Comparing credences and inductive probabilities, credences are relative to individual agents and are descriptive, while inductive
probabilities are normative and express objective relations of justification between propositions. The source of our knowledge of
inductive probabilities is not specified, but it is suggested that they have the same source as our deductive principles.

The argument for inductive probabilities relies on the comparison between deductive and inductive arguments. In a deductive
argument, the premises entail the conclusion, while in an inductive argument, the premises justify the conclusion to some degree.
The justification relation in inductive arguments is weaker than entailment but still objective and has consequences for the
beliefs of any rational agent.

The inductive probability-raising theory of justification defines "E justifies H relative to B" as PR(H|E&B) > PR(H&B), meaning
that E justifies H if and only if E makes H more probable than it was before. This concept of justification is similar to the
subjectivist's concept of confirmation.

Criticisms:

1. The argument for inductive probabilities assumes that there is an objective relation of justification between premises and
conclusions, which some philosophers reject.
2. The source of our knowledge of inductive probabilities is not specified, making it unclear how agents can determine what their
degrees of belief ought to be.
3. The comparison between credences and inductive probabilities may be misleading because they serve different purposes:
credences reflect an individual's beliefs, while inductive probabilities are normative and express objective relations of
justification.
4. The inductive probability-raising theory of justification assumes that there is a clear distinction between what makes H more
probable and what confirms H, which may not always be the case.

Checking x21
 The degree-of-belief-raising theory of confirmation is replaced by a new definition where rational agent R and background
beliefs are introduced instead of specific agent S and time. This change allows for the examination of objective relations of
justification between propositions, i.e., inductive probabilities, independent of any particular agent.

The argument for the existence of inductive probabilities is based on two main points:

1. Inductivists argue that there are objective inductive probabilities by pointing out cases like the King of Hy-Brasil who seems
irrational in ignoring repeated failures of his predictions, thus highlighting the need for inductive probabilities.
2. Subjectivists might counter this argument by stating they don't see any error in such bizarre beliefs and would instead focus
on actual agents and their beliefs. The inductivist can then argue that these arbitrary beliefs are unacceptable.

The second argument for inductive probabilities focuses on the arbitrariness of subjective degrees of belief, which leads to an
unstable position since subjectivists maintain their beliefs without recognizing any objective reason for them.

Despite these arguments, inductive probabilities have become unpopular since the late twentieth century due to skepticism about
the source of our knowledge of inductive probabilities. The primary objection against it is that evidence cannot be the source of
this knowledge, as we need prior knowledge of inductive probabilities to know what our evidence supports, leading to a vicious
regress.

Criticism:
The arguments for inductive probabilities may not be strong enough to overcome the skepticism raised by the Evidence and Regress
objection. The A Priori and Good Company Defense, while providing an alternative way of justifying inductive probabilities, does
not fully address the concerns regarding its validity as a source of knowledge. More robust evidence or arguments are needed to
establish the legitimacy of inductive probabilities conclusively.

Checking x22
 The passage discusses objections to inductive probabilities, which are a weakening of deductive entailments used in inductive
reasoning. One objection is the disagreement about values, where people cannot come to an agreement about the values of inductive
probabilities. This objection is based on the argument that if inductive probabilities existed, people would be able to agree on
their values. However, Maher argues that there can be agreement about inductive probabilities being imprecise, and that the
example given by Ramsey does not show a lack of agreement but rather a lack of clear inductive probabilities.

The passage also introduces Principles of Indifference, which are used to determine probability values when there is no reason to
favor one possibility over another. However, these principles cannot be justified and have been subjected to various objections.
The main objection is that there is more than one way to divide up the possibilities, making it impossible to assign a unique
probability value.

The passage criticizes inductive probabilities by highlighting the lack of agreement about their values and the failure of
Principles of Indifference to provide a systematic approach for determining probability values. To make a convincing case for
inductive probabilities, there needs to be a better method for reaching agreement on their values.

Checking x23
 The passage discusses the problems with applying the Principle of Indifference, which states that in the absence of any
knowledge about a random variable, one should assign equal probabilities to all possibilities, to continuous variables. The
example given is of a factory producing squares with edge lengths between 1 and 2 cm, and the question of what is the probability
that a square has an area smaller than 2.25 cm2. The passage points out that if the Principle of Indifference is applied to the
length, the answer would be 1/2, as 1.5 cm is the halfway point between 1 and 2 cm. However, if the same question is asked in
terms of area, the answer should be the same, but applying the Principle of Indifference to area gives a different answer,
leading to contradictory results.

The passage then discusses possible responses from defenders of inductive probabilities. One response is that Principles of
Indifference may exist, even if we haven't figured out what they are yet. Another response is that a range of credences may be
permissible, allowing for some leeway in applying the Principle of Indifference to either length or area in the example given.

The passage concludes by stating that even if there is no reason to reject the existence of inductive probabilities, the
difficulties with the Principle of Indifference remove a possible defense of inductive probabilities. The attempt to find
Principles of Indifference that would be applied only to privileged properties has not resulted in agreement on what these
privileged properties are.

The criticism of this passage would be that it highlights the problems with applying the Principle of Indifference to continuous
variables, but does not offer a solution to this problem. The response from defenders of inductive probabilities is also not
fully explored, leaving the reader to wonder if there are other possible defenses of inductive probabilities. Additionally, the
passage could have delved deeper into the philosophical implications of the failure to find Principles of Indifference that
command agreement.

Checking x24
 This chapter discusses the problem of induction, which questions our reasons for believing in anything that is not guaranteed to
be true by our evidence. The author presents Hume's argument that past performance is not an indication of future returns,
extending this skeptical view to our general reasons for belief.

The main argument focuses on justifying the belief that the sun will rise tomorrow, highlighting that relying on the belief that
the sun has risen in the past or on the laws of nature does not provide a satisfactory answer. The author suggests that what is
needed is a Principle of Uniformity – the belief that the future will resemble the past. However, this principle itself needs
justification, which leads to a circular reasoning problem.

The chapter also introduces inductive probabilities as a possible solution for the problem of induction, suggesting that they
might provide a way to rationally determine degrees of belief and solve one of the central problems in philosophy. However, there
are objections to this idea, including the difficulty of accessing these relations and the lack of agreement on substantive
principles of indifference.

Study Questions:

1. Inductive probabilities are degrees of belief that agents ought to have based on objective relations between propositions,
which can be seen as weaker support relations compared to deductive ones. They aim to justify rational beliefs and remove
arbitrariness in degree of belief.
2. The best arguments for inductive probabilities include solving the problem of induction, justifying rational degrees of
belief, and offering a more objective approach than subjectivist alternatives. Objections include doubts about their existence,
lack of agreement on substantive principles, and potential circularity.
3. Three connected arguments against inductive probabilities are: (1) objections to the existence of substantive principles, (2)
disagreement among people regarding these principles, and (3) the difficulties with the Principle of Indifference. These concerns
question the usefulness and reliability of inductive probabilities.
4. Inductive probabilities are related to deductive entailments as both represent logical relationships between propositions.
While deductive entailments guarantee truth, inductive probabilities offer degrees of belief based on support relations.

Advanced Questions:

5. Both arguments for a priori access to inductive and deductive probabilities face similar challenges and are subject to debate.
6. Maher's view that difficulties with the Principle of Indifference do not undermine the usefulness of inductive probabilities
is a matter of ongoing discussion, as this principle plays a significant role in their justification.
7. The problem of induction highlights the challenge of justifying beliefs based on past experiences and generalizing them to
future events.

Checking x25
 The author argues that the principle of uniformity, which states that the future will resemble the past, cannot be justified
through circular reasoning. They clarify that this discussion is not about fully justifying a belief or finding conclusive
reasons to believe, but rather questioning whether we have any reason at all to hold beliefs about the future.

The author then extends the problem of induction to cover any nondeductive inference, where the truth of the premises does not
guarantee the truth of the conclusion. They provide examples that question our beliefs about the past and other places,
highlighting the challenge of inferring from what we observe to what we do not observe.

The main points are:

1. Deduction is the process of inferring from premises to a conclusion entailed by those premises.
2. Induction is the process of inferring from premises to a conclusion not entailed by those premises.
3. The problem of induction is the challenge of justifying inductive reasoning or nondeductive inferences.

The author criticizes the reliance on principles like uniformity, which assume what they are supposed to show, resulting in
circular arguments. This leaves open questions about our beliefs regarding future events and other inferences not based on direct
observation.

Checking x26
 The passage discusses the problem of justifying our belief in the uniformity of nature, which is the principle that what has
been observed in the past will continue to hold true in the future. This principle is used to justify inferences from observed
evidence to unobserved phenomena, but the author argues that it cannot be justified by appealing to observed evidence because
such an argument would be circular.

The author then presents an alternative argument for the justification of the Principle of Uniformity, associated with Max Black,
which argues that the principle can be understood as a rule of inference rather than a premise. This rule, R, allows us to infer
from "in the past, X" to "in the future, X", where X is a type of event. The author then presents a rule-circular argument for
the justification of R, arguing that it has been successful in the past and therefore will continue to be successful in the
future.

However, this argument also faces the problem of circularity, as it assumes the very principle it aims to justify. Furthermore,
the author raises the concern that even if we could justify the Principle of Uniformity, it would not be sufficient to justify
all our beliefs about unobserved phenomena because some beliefs go beyond what can be inferred from past experience.

In summary, the passage presents the problem of justifying our belief in the uniformity of nature and offers an alternative
argument for its justification, but ultimately concludes that the principle cannot be fully justified and that there are limits
to what we can infer from past experience. The author suggests that a complete answer to Hume's skepticism would require a
justification for the principles of uniformity, which has yet to be provided.

Checking x27
 The text discusses the issue of rule-circularity in arguments, using the example of R, a successful rule-circular argument.
However, the acceptability of rule-circularity is questioned, as not all self-supporting rules seem acceptable (e.g., Anti-R and
T).

The Principle of Uniformity can be seen as both a premise and a rule of inference, but understanding it as a rule doesn't
automatically justify its use.

Stove's argument attempts to justify induction by providing a statistical argument that populations probably resemble random
samples taken from them. However, this approach assumes the sample is selected at random, which requires justification itself. It
also only justifies inferences about the entire population, not individual cases within the population.

Objections to Stove's argument include questioning the randomness of the sample and noting that even if a population resembles a
random sample, it doesn't guarantee the next individual case will follow the same pattern.

The text highlights the challenges in justifying induction and emphasizes the need for careful consideration when using
rule-circularity or statistical arguments.

Checking x28
 The author presents an argument made by E, who claims that the next emerald is likely to be green if and only if P(E|GG or WG) >
P(E). However, the author argues that this inequality may not hold and provides a counterargument. The author suggests that there
is no reason to believe that unobserved emeralds are more likely to be green than white, and presents two possible hypotheses
that are equally supported by evidence: (a) There are many green emeralds in the sample and the rest are green; (b) There are
many green emeralds in the sample and the rest are white.

The author then discusses two sources of a priori justification for induction. The first source is Kant's theory, which suggests
that we have intuitions that allow us to justify certain beliefs without the need for observation. However, this theory has been
challenged by Einstein's theory of relativity. The second source is the idea that some sentences can be justified in virtue of
understanding the meanings of the words they contain. These sentences are called analytic.

The author then discusses Peter Strawson's application of this second source to the problem of induction. Strawson argues that
the Principle of Uniformity can be justified a priori, in virtue of its meaning. He presents an argument that suggests that if
someone has observed instances of the sun rising, they have evidence that the sun will rise tomorrow, and therefore have
justification to believe that it will rise tomorrow. However, the author questions the validity of this argument and suggests
that further examination is needed.

In summary, the author presents a counterargument to E's claim that P(E|GG or WG) > P(E), suggesting instead that there are two
equally supported hypotheses regarding the color of unobserved emeralds. The author then discusses two sources of a priori
justification for induction and examines Peter Strawson's argument that the Principle of Uniformity can be justified a priori.
However, the author questions the validity of this argument and suggests that further examination is needed.

Checking x29
 In this text, the author discusses Strawson's semantic solution to Hume's problem of induction. Strawson argues that we have a
priori justification for inductive principles because part of the meaning of "the sun rose yesterday" implies that the sun will
probably rise tomorrow. However, the author raises several objections to this view. Firstly, it is implausible to suggest that
words have meanings beyond what they intuitively seem to represent; in this case, attributing to the statement "the sun rose
yesterday" a claim about the sun's future behavior. Secondly, the author argues that there is ambiguity in Strawson's argument,
as "evidence" can refer both to past instances of something and justification for believing in its future occurrence. Thirdly,
the author contends that even if we accept Strawson's definition of evidence, it does not follow that such a concept is coherent
or reliable. It may be defective, as demonstrated by Dummett's example of the word "boche."

The author then moves on to discuss Reichenbach's pragmatic vindication of induction. Reichenbach argues that we should use
induction because it is the only method that can lead to successful predictions if nature is uniform. However, the author objects
to this view by arguing that justification for a belief does not entail truth, as demonstrated in the example where one might
have pragmatic justification to believe something false for financial gain.

In summary, while both Strawson and Reichenbach offer responses to Hume's problem of induction, the author raises several
objections to their views. The author argues that attributing meaning beyond what a statement intuitively represents is
implausible, as is accepting ambiguous definitions of key terms. Furthermore, even if we accept a definition of evidence or
justification, it does not follow that such concepts are reliable or coherent. Finally, the author objects to Reichenbach's
pragmatic vindication of induction by arguing that justification for a belief does not entail truth.

Checking x30
 The problem of induction is the philosophical question of why we should believe that the future will resemble the past based on
our observations. This issue has been debated for centuries, with various arguments and responses presented. In this summary,
different attempts to justify induction are discussed, including circular justification, a priori justification, Reichenbach's
pragmatic vindication, and Popper's falsificationism.

1. The problem of induction: Explain the basic issue in the problem of induction, which is the justification for believing that
what we observe will continue to hold true in unobserved cases.
2. Circular justification: Describe how circular justification argues that we should believe in induction because it has worked
in the past, but this argument fails since it assumes what it aims to prove.
3. A priori justification: Explain Strawson's argument that we have a priori justification for believing in induction based on
language use. However, this approach faces difficulties as we need antecedent justification to trust these concepts.
4. Skeptical responses: Consider whether the skeptical response to induction is satisfactory and which of the two skeptical
approaches (circular or a priori) is better. Neither response fully satisfies the issue, leaving the problem of induction
unsolved.

Advanced questions:
5. Deduction vs. induction: Discuss whether the problem of deduction poses similar challenges to solving it as the problem of
induction. This comparison can shed light on how we should view these problems and their implications for reasoning.
6. Language and reality: Explore what it means when an analysis of language alone cannot tell us anything about the world.
Consider whether this claim is accurate and its implications for philosophy and understanding reality.
7. Stove's argument: Summarize and criticize Stove's sampling argument, which assumes a random selection procedure but fails to
justify specific plausible hypotheses about the unobserved. This argument shares similarities with both inductivists and Popper's
views on falsificationism.

In summary, the problem of induction remains an unsolved challenge in philosophy. Various attempts have been made to address it
through circular or a priori justifications, Reichenbach's pragmatic vindication, and Popper's falsificationism, but none has
provided a fully satisfactory answer.

Checking x31
 The text discusses the problem of induction and introduces the concept of the "new problem of induction," which highlights that
there are many different ways in which the world could be uniform. The text uses intuitive examples and Nelson Goodman's example
to illustrate this point, and considers responses such as the special class of properties being projectible and the role of
evidence selection.

One criticism of this section is that it assumes the Principle of Uniformity without justification. This principle states that
samples probably resemble the rest of the population, but it is not clear why this should be the case. Additionally, the text's
focus on the "new problem of induction" may distract from Hume's original problem of induction, which is the justification for
inductive reasoning in general.

The example of the food critic inferring that all unobserved chickens are dead based on observed chickens being dead highlights
the issue of making inferences about unobserved objects based on observed ones. However, it's not clear why this example is less
justifiable than inferring that unobserved emeralds are green.

The introduction of the concept of "grue" as a property that objects can have is a bit confusing and arbitrary, and it's not
immediately clear how it relates to the problem of induction. The text tries to make the point that there are many different ways
in which the world could be uniform, but introducing a made-up word for a made-up property doesn't necessarily help clarify this
point.

Overall, the section provides some interesting examples and ideas related to the problem of induction, but it fails to provide a
clear and compelling solution or response to Hume's original problem. The text also relies on certain assumptions, such as the
Principle of Uniformity, without justification.

Checking x32
 This passage discusses Goodman's "new riddle of induction" and the concept of projectible properties as a response to it. The
riddle highlights the problematic nature of applying the Principle of Uniformity to certain disjunctive properties, such as
"grue," which can lead to unreasonable beliefs. Projectible properties are those that, when observed Fs have a property, justify
the belief that unobserved Fs also have it. The proposed solution is to restrict the Principle of Uniformity to projectible
properties, thus avoiding unreasonable conclusions drawn from unprojectible properties like "grue."

A possible criticism of this response could be that defining projectible properties may not be as straightforward as suggested in
the passage. It might be difficult to determine clear criteria for what makes a property projectible or unprojectible, leading to
potential subjectivity and ambiguity. Furthermore, even within the category of projectible properties, applying the Principle of
Uniformity can sometimes lead to questionable conclusions. A more robust response may require addressing both defining
projectible properties and understanding why applying the Principle of Uniformity to them generally yields reasonable beliefs
while it does not for unprojectible properties.

Checking x33
 The principle of uniformity-sampling states that all observed Fs are G justifies the belief that all unobserved Fs are G.
However, this principle is problematic because it does not account for the distinction between projectible and unprojectible
properties. Goodman suggested that projectible properties are those that have been used with success by scientists, but this
solution is flawed because it would prevent scientists from introducing new properties and making scientific progress. Other
suggestions include appealing to lawlike properties or simple properties, but these solutions also have problems and lack general
agreement. Carnap proposed that intrinsic properties are projectible, while properties that locate an object in time or space are
not, but this solution has also been criticized. Frank Jackson argued that the distinction between projectible and unprojectible
properties is misguided because it depends on the context, and even a property like grue can be projectible in certain
circumstances. Overall, there is no consensus on how to define projectibility, and recent interest in defining it has waned.

Checking x34
 The passage discusses Frank Jackson's argument on projectible and unprojectible properties, with a focus on his counterfactual
solution for justifying inferences about unobserved instances of a property based on observed instances.

Key points include:

1. The problem of chameleons appearing green when observed but being blue when unobserved, leading to the idea that all
chameleons are "grue" (blue when unobserved and turns green when observed).
2. Jackson's counterfactual solution: add a counterfactual condition to the Principle of Uniformity, which states that if the Fs
had not been observed, they would still have been G. This ensures that the property does not vary with whether the object is
observed.
3. Criticism of Jackson's solution: there are cases where the counterfactual holds but the inference is still not justified
(e.g., a food critic who has only seen dead chickens).
4. The introduction of sampling and representativeness to address the problem: a sample is representative with respect to
property G if the proportion of G in the sample matches the population's.
5. Principle of Uniformity-Sampling-Representative: combining observations, counterfactuals, and representativeness results in a
true principle for justifying inferences about unobserved instances.

Criticism:

The primary criticism is that using Principle of Uniformity-Sampling-Representative requires having justified belief that the
sample is representative. This information may not always be available, and even when it is, determining representativeness can
be challenging due to potential biases or unknown factors affecting the population. Thus, while this principle might work in
idealized scenarios, its applicability in real-world situations could be limited.

Checking x35
 This passage discusses various aspects of the problem of induction and possible solutions to it. The "grue" problem is presented
as an example of how defining a property in a certain way can build a selection bias into it, making it impossible to have an
unbiased sample with respect to that property. The principle of uniformity-sampling-random is introduced as a more practical
solution, but it requires the assumption that the selection procedure is unbiased with respect to the property of interest (G).

The passage then raises the issue of justifying the belief that the selection procedure is unbiased and suggests that this may
require a priori justification. The possibility of using random sampling as a solution to the new problem of induction is also
mentioned, but it is noted that it is not clear that we have reason to believe that our procedures are unbiased.

The passage concludes by stating that even a sensible principle of uniformity applied only to familiar properties can lead to
paradoxical results. The study questions at the end ask about the meaning of "grue" and "projectible," Jackson's counterfactual
solution to the grue problem, and how random sampling might solve the new problem of induction.

One potential issue with the principle of uniformity-sampling-random is that it requires the assumption that the selection
procedure is unbiased, which may not always be easy to justify. Additionally, as the passage notes, even a sensible principle of
uniformity applied only to familiar properties can lead to paradoxical results.

Overall, this passage presents and critiques various solutions to the problem of induction, ultimately suggesting that even a
seemingly straightforward solution like random sampling may not be sufficient.

Checking x36
 The Paradox of the Principle of Uniformity is presented in this text, which leads to contradictory conclusions when combined
with the principles of Equivalence and Substitution. The principle of Instance states that observing a specific instance can
justify a general rule, but this leads to paradoxical outcomes when applied to examples involving card suits or fairground rides.

The principle of Equivalence suggests that "All Fs are Gs" is equivalent to "All non-Gs are non-Fs," which may not be immediately
obvious but is demonstrated through examples. Substitution, the final principle, states that if two statements say the same thing
and one is justified by evidence, then the other must also be justified.

The paradox arises when these principles are combined. For example, observing a red heart justifies that all red cards are hearts
(by Instance). By Equivalence, "All reds are hearts" means the same as "All clubs are black." Therefore, by Substitution,
observing a red heart justifies that all clubs are black, which is paradoxical.

This paradox highlights the need to apply constraints when using the Principle of Uniformity and demonstrates the importance of
carefully considering the implications of each principle when used in combination with others. The text encourages the reader to
reflect on these examples and consider which premise they would reject if they find the conclusion problematic.

Checking x37
 The paradox of the ravens is a philosophical problem that arises from the observation of a white sneaker and the conclusion that
all ravens are black. This paradox can be broken down into several premises, one of which is the principle of equivalence, which
states that "all clubs are black" is equivalent to "all reds are hearts." However, this principle is not always true when
interpreting sentences as a normal speaker would.

A proposed solution to rejecting the paradox is to deny equivalence, but this does not solve the problem. Even if we make the
intended interpretation explicit, the paradox still remains. A red heart does not justify that there are no red clubs, just as a
white sneaker does not justify that there are no white ravens.

The real weak point of the paradox is the principle of instance, which can be broken down into two parts: instance-observed and
instance-unobserved. The problem lies in the latter part, where an observed F is G justifies that all unobserved Fs are G. This
is a questionable assumption, as it may not always be true that what is true for observed Fs also applies to unobserved Fs.

In summary, the paradox of the ravens highlights the limitations of making inductive inferences based on limited observations.
The solution to this paradox lies in critically examining the assumptions behind the principle of instance and recognizing that
what is true for observed Fs may not necessarily be true for unobserved Fs.

Checking x38
 In this text, the author discusses the concepts of Instance-observed and Instance-unobserved in the context of Hempel's Ravens
Paradox. The author argues that both forms of inference need to be restricted.

In 8.3.1, the author discusses Instance-observed, which states that "An observed F is G justifies All observed Fs are G." While
it may seem intuitive, the author argues that this form of inference can lead to incorrect conclusions. If evidence (E) is
certain to be observed, then observing E cannot justify a hypothesis (H), because the probability of H given E is equal to the
probability of H. The author uses the example of observing a white sneaker and concluding that all observed white things are
sneakers. Although the relation between the hypothesis and evidence may be deductive, if there was no possibility of not
observing the evidence, then observing the evidence cannot justify the hypothesis.

In 8.3.2, the author discusses how people tend to find Instance-observed surprising, due to a psychological experiment called the
Wason selection task. In this task, subjects are asked to turn over cards with numbers and colors on them to justify that every
observed card with an even number on one side is black on the other. Most subjects only suggest turning over the cards with even
numbers and black color, but the white card also needs to be turned over to check if it's even, which would be a counterexample
to the hypothesis. The author argues that people tend to look for confirming instances instead of counterexamples, which leads
them to find Instance-observed surprising.

In 8.4, the author discusses Instance-unobserved, which states that "An observed F is G justifies All unobserved Fs are G." The
author argues that this form of inference also needs to be restricted. If observing an F cannot justify a hypothesis about
observed Fs, then it cannot justify a hypothesis about unobserved Fs either.

Overall, the author argues that while Instance-observed and Instance-unobserved can be useful forms of inference, they need to be
restricted to avoid drawing incorrect conclusions or being surprised by their outcomes.

Checking x39
 This passage discusses the concept of natural kinds and its role in the principle of induction known as Instance-unobserved. The
principle of Instance-unobserved states that observing a sample of a certain kind of thing allows us to make predictions about
other unobserved members of that kind. However, Quine argued that this principle only applies to natural kinds, which are
categories that scientists use to investigate the world and cut reality at its joints.

The passage then goes on to discuss two objections to the idea that Instance-unobserved only applies to natural kinds. The first
objection is that it is unclear what a natural kind is, and even if we did know, it seems too restrictive to limit the principle
in this way. For example, observing that one of your pockets contains francs would justify the belief that all your unobserved
pockets contain francs, even though pockets are not a natural kind.

The second objection is that Instance-unobserved, Natural Kind is not restrictive enough, because it allows for the possibility
that an observed member of a natural kind could disconfirm the hypothesis that all unobserved members of that kind have a certain
property. For example, observing a black raven would refute the hypothesis that all unobserved ravens are black, even though
ravens are a natural kind.

The passage concludes by introducing the concept of degrees of justification and suggesting that the hypothesis that unobserved
ravens are black is justified to some degree, but not to a high degree. The specific degree of justification would depend on the
distribution of properties among observed and unobserved members of the kind in question.

Checking x40
 The paradox of the ravens is a philosophical problem that arises from the observation that the statement "an observed F is G"
seems to justify the conclusion "all unobserved Fs are G," which can seem counterintuitive or even false in certain cases, such
as when the observed object is a white sneaker and the category in question is "all ravens are black." The standard Bayesian
response to this paradox accepts the conclusion but seeks to mitigate its impact by showing that different types of evidence
provide varying degrees of justification for the hypothesis. In particular, the observation of a black raven provides more
justification for the hypothesis that all ravens are black than the observation of a white sneaker does.

The argument is based on the idea that we can represent our beliefs about the distribution of objects in the world using a set of
boxes, with each box representing a particular combination of features (e.g., black raven, white sneaker). The distribution of
objects in these boxes is intended to reflect our actual beliefs about the likelihood of observing different types of objects
given certain assumptions about the world.

The author argues that an observed black raven provides more justification for the hypothesis that all ravens are black than a
white sneaker does because the proportionate increase in the number of black ravens is greater than the proportionate increase in
the number of white sneakers when we move from a world where some ravens are white to a world where all ravens are black. This
argument is based on the assumption that the hypothesis "all ravens are black" is independent of the likelihood of observing a
raven and the likelihood of observing a white thing, which seems reasonable but may not be universally accepted.

The author then provides a formal proof of their claim using conditional probabilities and assuming that the degree to which
evidence E justifies hypothesis H is measured by the ratio P(E|H)/P(E|-H). Using this measure, they show that observing a black
raven provides more justification for the hypothesis "all ravens are black" than observing a white sneaker does.

While the standard Bayesian response to the paradox of the ravens is an interesting and plausible way to resolve the paradox, it
is not without its limitations. One potential issue is that the measure of justification used by the author is based on
conditional probabilities, which may not always align with our intuitions about what constitutes evidence or justification.
Additionally, the argument assumes that certain features of the world (such as the number of ravens and the likelihood of
observing a white thing) are known or can be estimated with some degree of accuracy, which may not always be the case.

Overall, the standard Bayesian response to the paradox of the ravens provides a useful framework for thinking about the
relationship between evidence and justification, but it is important to recognize its limitations and potential weaknesses.
Further research and discussion are needed to fully understand the implications of this approach and its potential applications
in other areas of philosophy and science.

Checking x41
 The text discusses the concept of probability, making a distinction between subjective or inductive probabilities (credence) and
objective probabilities (chances). Chances are chances in the world that can be understood independently of what people do or
believe, while credence depends on an individual's beliefs and evidence.

The text introduces the Principal Principle (PP), which states that if an agent is rational, their credence in a hypothesis H
should equal the chance of H. This principle shows the connection between chance and credence, with chance serving as an expert
opinion that a rational agent should defer to. However, it's important to note that PP connects an agent's credence in H to their
beliefs about the chance of H, not the actual chance of H.

The text also mentions two other constraints on a theory of chance: (1) chances must satisfy the rules of probability and (2) we
should be able to discover them through evidence. The text then discusses two leading approaches to understanding chance: the
frequency theory and the propensity theory, each with its strengths and weaknesses regarding their connection to rational belief.

The section on study questions raises concerns about the "paradox of the ravens," where people might find it counterintuitive
that observing a non-black raven could increase their confidence that all ravens are black. The text suggests that the principle
of matching beliefs to known chances might be a reasonable response to this paradox.

Overall, the text highlights the importance of understanding probability in both subjective and objective contexts while
acknowledging the challenges in defining and justifying chance.

Checking x42
 The actual frequency theory of chance is a version of frequentism that identifies the chance of an event with the actual
relative frequency of occurrences of that event in a series of trials. This theory satisfies the constraints of allowing us to
discover what the chances are, as we can directly observe actual frequencies, and it ensures that chances satisfy the rules of
probability due to the mathematics of frequencies. However, actual frequentism faces the reference class problem: every event
belongs to various types or classes, and different classes may have different relative frequencies for the outcome in question.
This makes it unclear which reference class to use when determining the chance of an event, and how to apply the Principal
Principle, which states that credence should match chance.

Some philosophers argue that we should use the narrowest reference class for which we know the frequencies, but this answer only
applies when one class is a subclass of another. Others suggest that we should take into account all relevant reference classes
and weigh up the evidence from each source. While there may not be general rules for how to weigh different reference classes,
this approach does not pose any specific problems for chances.

The argument for justifying the Principal Principle based on actual frequentism assumes that betting prices match frequencies and
credences, and concludes that credences should match chances. However, this argument relies on the assumption that one's betting
prices match their credences, which is not always the case. Moreover, even if this assumption holds, it does not necessarily
follow that credences should match chances, as there may be other considerations or constraints on rational belief. Therefore,
the argument for justifying the Principal Principle based on actual frequentism is not conclusive.

Checking x43
 The argument for the Principal Principle, which states that an ideal rational agent's credences should match the objective
chances, is critiqued for only justifying this principle in the long run and not in individual cases. The response provided is
that a good long-run strategy can also be a good short-run strategy, in the absence of specific information about the short-run
event. The principle "Equal credence" is then introduced, which states that if all one knows about a class of events is that they
have the same chance of being of type E, then one ought to assign the same credence to each of these events being of type E. This
principle is justified by the Principle of Indifference, which has faced difficulties in its own justification.

The main objection to actual frequentism, which identifies chances with the observed frequency of events, is that actual
frequencies can come apart from chances. This problem is highlighted in scenarios such as the 'problem of the single case' and
the 'problem of the double case'. Hypothetical frequentism is then presented as an alternative view, identifying chances with the
hypothetical frequency of outcomes if a type of event were to occur many times. However, this view is also criticized for the
lack of well-defined hypothetical events and frequencies.

The main issue discussed in this text is the challenge of providing a coherent and justified definition of objective chances and
how they relate to an ideal rational agent's subjective credences. Both actual and hypothetical frequentism face difficulties in
fully capturing this relationship, with the Principal Principle remaining a contentious concept.

Checking x44
 The author discusses two theories of chance or probability: the frequency theory and the propensity theory. The frequency
theory, associated with Hume, holds that the world is made up of local matters of fact, with no necessary connections between
events. Chance is reduced to the pattern of events and identified with the frequency of an outcome in a series of similar events.
This view has the advantage of making it easy to explain how we can discover chances.

The propensity theory, on the other hand, posits that the events in the universe are bound together by necessary connections, and
that causes are fundamental parts of the world, not reducible to patterns of events. Propensities, which can be understood as
dispositions or tendencies, are seen as more fundamental than behavior and are used to explain chances. The propensity theory is
considered most plausible in cases where chance is a fundamental part of the causal structure of the world, such as in quantum
mechanics.

However, the author also raises some criticisms of the propensity theory. It is unclear how we might discover the propensities,
as they cannot be directly observed like actual frequencies. The non-Humean view that necessary connections between events can be
inferred from their regular co-occurrence is also questioned.

In summary, both theories of chance have their strengths and weaknesses. The frequency theory is more straightforward and easier
to verify, but may not adequately capture the complexity of probabilistic phenomena. The propensity theory offers a deeper
explanation of chance, but faces challenges in how we might discover and confirm the existence of propensities.

Checking x45
 The propensity theory of chance posits that chance is a type of causation represented by propensities, which are not symmetrical
like probability statements. This can lead to Humphreys' Paradox, where the symmetry rule of probability theory contradicts the
asymmetry of propensities.

One proposed solution for propensity theorists is to reject the symmetry rule for propensities and develop their own theory that
diverges from standard probability theory. However, this raises questions about justifying the Principal Principle, which states
that our beliefs should align with propensities.

Lewis argues against the Principal Principle by questioning why knowledge of "primitive unHumean whatnots," like propensities,
should constrain rational credence. From a Humean perspective, actual frequencies are more relevant for belief formation than
abstract propensities.

Hall attempts to justify the Principal Principle by defining 'chance' as an analytic concept that causes events and constrains
beliefs. However, this approach raises concerns about whether anything in nature satisfies this definition and why such a
connection between chance and belief constraint would exist.

If appealing to analyticities doesn't work, one might argue that the Principal Principle is a primitive constraint on
rationality. This could help avoid having 'crazy beliefs,' but it may be considered a disadvantage for propensity theory since
frequency theorists can derive this principle from independently motivated Principles of Indifference.

Criticism:
Lewis's criticism highlights an essential issue with the propensity theory – the lack of connection between abstract propensities
and rational belief formation. While Hall's analytic Principal Principle proposal attempts to address this, it raises questions
about whether anything in nature satisfies this definition and why there should be a connection between chance and belief
constraint. The argument for the Principal Principle as a primitive constraint on rationality seems insufficient, as it doesn't
clarify why such a constraint exists or why it would apply specifically to propensities. Overall, these issues demonstrate that
further development is needed to establish a robust justification for the Principal Principle within propensity theory.

Checking x46
 This text discusses the Principal Principle, which is a rationality constraint that connects an agent's credence (degree of
belief) in a proposition to its objective chance. The principle is called "principal" because it plays a central role in our
concept of chance.

The text also explores two other candidates for rationality constraints: the Principle of Reflection and the Equal Weight View.
The Principle of Reflection states that an agent's beliefs should match their expected future beliefs, while the Equal Weight
View suggests that the opinions of an epistemic peer (someone with equal expertise) should be given the same weight as one's own.

The text mentions some potential issues with these principles, including apparent counterexamples. For instance, the Principle of
Reflection may not account for cases where an agent has good reason to believe they will experience future memory loss or forget
their current beliefs.

The text also touches on two theories of chance: the frequency theory and the propensity theory. The frequency theory posits that
chances are frequencies in repeatable events, while the propensity theory argues that chances are objective properties of the
world that determine the outcomes of single events. Both theories face challenges, such as the reference class problem and
justifying the Principal Principle.

Study questions include:

1. What is the Principal Principle and why is it called "principal"?
2. What is the actual frequency theory?
3. What are the best arguments for or against the actual frequency theory?
4. What is the propensity theory?
5. What are the best arguments for or against the propensity theory?

Advanced questions delve deeper into these topics, such as examining whether David Lewis's view that the Principal Principle is
central to our concept of chance is correct and whether hypothetical frequentism is a better or worse approach than actual
frequentism.

Checking x47
 This passage discusses the principle of Reflection in philosophy of rationality, which states that an agent's current degree of
belief in a proposition should equal their expected future degree of belief in that same proposition. However, there are several
counterexamples to this principle, such as cases of future memory loss or irrationality.

The passage then introduces the idea of Qualified Reflection, which suggests that agents should satisfy Reflection only if they
are certain that they won't forget anything and are certain that future changes in belief will be rational. This is further
clarified to mean that agents should satisfy Reflection only if they are certain they will always be conditionalizers. However,
the passage argues that it is not plausible for fallible human agents to be certain of this.

The passage raises a complication for understanding inductive probabilities as either the credence that an ideal agent would have
or the probabilities that our degrees of belief ought to match. It suggests that these concepts can come apart and that we should
be concerned with both ideals of rationality and what we ought to believe as fallible human agents.

The passage then briefly touches on disagreement, suggesting that deferring to other people's opinions is not as appealing as
deferring to one's own future opinions. The example given is a Rabbi and a Priest trying to convince each other of their
theological views, where both are convinced that the other has all the same evidence.

One possible criticism of this passage could be that it oversimplifies the concept of Qualified Reflection by focusing only on
certainty of memory retention and conditionalization as the criteria for satisfying the principle. There may be other ways to
qualify the principle that could address more counterexamples or nuances in human reasoning.

Another criticism could be that the passage's discussion of disagreement is too brief and does not adequately address the
complexities of rational disagreement between fallible agents with different perspectives and experiences.

Checking x48
 This text discusses the concept of epistemic peers and the Equal Weight View related to handling disagreements between such
peers. Epistemic peers are individuals with equal intelligence and evidence, who recognize each other as equals in terms of
understanding a specific issue or question. The Equal Weight View argues that when faced with a disagreement from an epistemic
peer, one should assign the same weight to their opinion as to one's own.

The text presents two main arguments for and against the Equal Weight View:

For Equal Weight - Lack of arbitrariness:
- The argument states that denying the Equal Weight View is arbitrary because it would involve giving more or less weight to a
peer's verdict, which goes against the principle of treating equally informed and intelligent individuals equally.

Against Equal Weight 1: Spinelessness and self-trust:
- The primary concern here is that following the Equal Weight View would make it impossible for an individual to hold any opinion
on a controversial issue since there will always be epistemic peers with differing opinions, leading to weak beliefs or
agnosticism.

Against Equal Weight 2: Ignoring evidence:
- This argument suggests that applying the Equal Weight View would mean ignoring evidence when two epistemic peers have different
interpretations of the same piece of evidence, potentially resulting in irrational decision-making.

Summary and Criticism:
The text presents a nuanced discussion on the Equal Weight View. The primary arguments for and against the view are clearly
outlined. However, there is room for further exploration, especially in the "Ignoring Evidence" argument. It would be helpful to
consider whether the Equal Weight View necessitates ignoring evidence or if it merely requires a more cautious approach when
evaluating conflicting interpretations of evidence between epistemic peers.

Further discussion could also address how best to balance the Equal Weight View with an individual's confidence in their own
reasoning abilities and the consideration of additional factors beyond just intelligence and evidence, such as personal
experiences or biases that may impact decision-making.

Checking x49
 This text presents an analysis of the Equal Weight View, which suggests that when presented with evidence from equally credible
sources that support conflicting hypotheses, one should assign equal credence to those hypotheses. The text argues against an
opposing view, which states that if one person has a higher level of confidence in a hypothesis based on the same evidence, their
confidence should be maintained.

The text argues that this opposing view mischaracterizes the evidence as double-counting, and instead suggests that the
disagreement itself serves as undercutting evidence for the original belief. This means that learning of the disagreement
undermines one's confidence in their evaluation of the evidence, rather than directly opposing the hypothesis itself.

The text also provides an example of undercutting evidence in the form of discovering that a source is unreliable, such as
learning that someone who provided evidence has been shown to be a liar. In this case, the discovery of the lying does not
directly oppose the hypothesis, but rather undermines one's confidence in the evidence used to support the hypothesis.

The text also briefly introduces the Sleeping Beauty problem, which is a thought experiment that deals with conditionalization,
chance, and Reflection within the Bayesian framework. The problem presents a situation where an individual is repeatedly put to
sleep and woken up, and must determine their level of confidence in the outcome of a coin flip based on their current state of
awareness. The text presents two opposing views, Halfers and Thirders, who have different levels of confidence in the outcome
based on their interpretation of the problem.

One possible criticism of the Equal Weight View is that it can lead to a lack of decisiveness or conviction in one's beliefs, as
equal weight is given to conflicting pieces of evidence. Additionally, some may argue that undercutting evidence, such as
disagreement from others, does not necessarily undermine one's confidence in their evaluation of the evidence if they have strong
reasons for believing what they do.

As for the Sleeping Beauty problem, a criticism could be that the thought experiment is too abstract and does not accurately
reflect real-world decision making scenarios. Additionally, some may argue that the Halfers and Thirders interpretations are
based on different assumptions about the nature of the problem, rather than being inherently correct or incorrect.

Checking x50
 The text presents and compares different theories of confirmation, including the probability-raising theory, falsificationism,
and hypothetico-deductivism. The probability-raising theory, which asserts that evidence confirms a hypothesis if its probability
increases given the evidence, is considered to be superior because it captures the strengths of both falsificationism and
hypothetico-deductivism while avoiding their weaknesses.

Falsificationism, which argues that a hypothesis is confirmed when it survives attempts at falsification, has been influential in
science, but it falls short when there is no deductive relationship between evidence and hypothesis. Hypothetico-deductivism
addresses this issue by suggesting that the confirmation of a hypothesis can be based on its ability to predict or explain the
evidence, but this theory also fails to account for cases where the evidence does not have a clear logical relationship with the
hypothesis.

The probability-raising theory, in contrast, offers a more flexible and nuanced approach to confirmation, as it allows for
confirmation even when there is no deductive connection between evidence and hypothesis. Moreover, unlike falsificationism, it
can account for situations where evidence weakens or disconfirms a hypothesis.

However, the probability-raising theory faces its own challenge in the form of the old evidence problem. This issue arises when
considering whether the confirmation relationship should apply to evidence that was already known prior to evaluating the
hypothesis. Critics argue that this type of evidence should not be used for confirmation because it cannot increase our
understanding or knowledge about the hypothesis.

In summary, while falsificationism and hypothetico-deductivism offer valuable insights on how scientific theories are confirmed,
their limitations make them less suitable as comprehensive theories of confirmation compared to the probability-raising theory.
Nevertheless, the old evidence problem highlights a challenge that remains open for further discussion in the philosophy of
science.

Checking x51
 This text discusses two alternative theories of confirmation: falsificationism and hypothetico-deductivism, and compares them to
the probability-raising theory of confirmation. Falsificationism, associated with Karl Popper, argues that we should try to
falsify theories rather than confirm them, while hypothetico-deductivism states that a hypothesis is confirmed by evidence if and
only if the evidence is deductively entailed by the hypothesis. The probability-raising theory of confirmation, which deals with
both falsificationism and hypothetico-deductivism, holds that evidence confirms a hypothesis if and only if the probability of
the hypothesis given the evidence is greater than the probability of the hypothesis alone.

The text also discusses the concept of surprising and unsurprising evidence in relation to the probability-raising theory of
confirmation. Surprising evidence, which has a low prior probability, strongly confirms hypotheses that predict it, while
unsurprising evidence, which has a high prior probability, only weakly confirms hypotheses.

The text also mentions the old evidence problem, which is the challenge of how to confirm hypotheses based on evidence that was
already known before the hypothesis was formulated. The probability-raising theory of confirmation can be interpreted as saying
that old evidence does not confirm a hypothesis because it has a prior probability of 1, and thus multiplying by the likelihood
ratio will not change its probability.

One possible criticism of this text is that it oversimplifies the distinction between surprising and unsurprising evidence. In
practice, what counts as "surprising" or "unsurprising" can be subjective and depend on the context. Additionally, the old
evidence problem is a complex issue that has been the subject of much debate in the philosophy of science, and this text's brief
treatment of it may not do justice to the nuances of the debate.

Checking x52
 In this passage, the old evidence problem is discussed in the context of using degrees of belief to define confirmation. The
problem arises when we have a hypothesis H and evidence E such that P(H|E) > P(H), but E is already known or believed with
certainty (P(E) = 1). In such cases, the probability-raising theory of confirmation would fail to confirm H, even if it
intuitively should be confirmed by E.

Three responses to this problem are presented and criticized:

1. **The logical learning response** (Garber, 1983) suggests that what confirms H is not E itself but the discovery that H
entails E. However, this approach changes the subject since it's not about E confirming H directly. Additionally, it requires
assuming ignorance of some logical facts, which violates the rules of probability.
2. **The objective chance response** (Hawthorne, 2005; Fitelson, 2006) proposes using chances instead of beliefs to ground
judgments of confirmation. However, this approach faces problems when there are no suitable chances available, as in the case of
unique events or hypotheses with no causal tendencies.

The passage concludes by stating that none of these responses provide a fully satisfactory solution to the old evidence problem,
leaving it an open issue in the philosophy of science.

Checking x53
 The text discusses Colin Howson's counterfactual response as a dominant solution to the old evidence problem in Bayesian
confirmation theory. According to this approach, "E confirms H" means that an agent's counterfactual credence in H given E is
greater than their counterfactual credence in H without E being believed (PCounterfactual(H|E) > PCounterfactual(H)). The text
then presents two objections to this counterfactual response.

1. Indeterminacy and subjectivism: A major challenge lies in determining the values of new possibilities when uneliminated. While
an inductivist can answer this question by relying on a fact of the matter about what priors one should have, a subjectivist
cannot provide a clear answer due to their view that credences can take any probabilistically coherent value. Consequently,
without constraints on how to uneliminate possibilities, the counterfactual response is considered too vague to be useful in
determining whether PCounterfactual(H|E) > PCounterfactual(H).
2. Problematic counterfactuals: The text raises concerns about situations where an agent's beliefs in a counterfactual scenario
might be problematic. For example, if Einstein had not believed that Mercury violated Newton's laws in 1915, he might have never
pursued science at all, which would make it impossible to assess PCounterfactual(H). In such cases, the text argues that there is
no answer to whether E confirms H.

To criticize these objections, one could argue that:

1. Indeterminacy and subjectivism: While it is true that assigning values to new possibilities might be challenging in a
subjective framework, the same issue arises when defining prior probabilities for an agent. The counterfactual response still
provides valuable insights into how an agent should adjust their beliefs upon acquiring new evidence, even if the exact numerical
values can't always be determined.
2. Problematic counterfactuals: While there might be cases where determining the value of PCounterfactual(H) is impossible due to
problematic counterfactuals, these cases may not be common in practice. In most situations, it should be possible to construct
reasonable counterfactual beliefs for the agent in question, even if this requires some speculation or assumptions about their
potential beliefs and behavior. The existence of pathological cases does not necessarily invalidate the overall usefulness of the
counterfactual response as a tool for understanding confirmation.

Checking x54
 The passage discusses the concept of confirmation and how it relates to an author's belief in the importance and popularity of
their literary work. Specifically, it presents the example of Mr. Schreiber, who believes that his successful and popular novels
are evidence of their importance (H) in literature. However, if he were unaware of his own success (counterfactual situation), he
would believe that the public's taste is often depraved, leading to a mismatch between his actual and counterfactual beliefs
about whether popularity confirms importance.

The problem arises when we consider how Mr. Schreiber's beliefs about confirmation don't match his counterfactual beliefs, making
it difficult to evaluate the effect of evidence on his beliefs. To solve this issue, the passage introduces "insulated reasoning"
as a method that holds fixed higher-order beliefs (inference principles) when considering the counterfactual beliefs.

The chapter then moves on to discussing justification skepticism in epistemology and how it relates to probabilistic approaches.
The problem of induction is mentioned, followed by an overview of different responses to the old evidence problem and other
advanced questions.

Summary:

* Discusses the concept of confirmation and its relationship with higher-order beliefs (inference principles)
* Introduces "insulated reasoning" as a method for evaluating counterfactual beliefs about confirmation
* Applies probabilistic approaches to justification skepticism in epistemology
* Addresses problems such as the problem of induction and the old evidence problem

Criticism:

* The passage assumes that the problem of induction has been solved, which may not be the case for all philosophers or theories.
* The argument for insulated reasoning is not fully developed, leaving some questions about its applicability to other scenarios.
* The discussion on justification skepticism is brief and lacks detail, making it difficult for readers unfamiliar with the topic
to grasp the significance of the probabilistic approach.
* Some of the advanced questions (e.g., responses to the old evidence problem) are not adequately addressed or explored in the
passage.

Checking x55
 Foundationalism, coherentism, infinitism, and justification-skepticism are four proposed solutions to address the problem of the
epistemic regress. The epistemic regress arises when we consider that a belief can only be justified by another justified belief
(1), yet this leads to an infinite chain of beliefs requiring justification. To avoid this issue, foundationalism denies
statement 1 and proposes that some basic beliefs are justified by something other than beliefs, such as experiences or
sensations. Coherentism denies statement 2, suggesting that circular chains of justification can exist. Infinitism denies
statement 3, arguing that justificatory chains can have infinite length. Justification-skepticism denies statement 4 and claims
that none of our beliefs are justified.

Foundationalism is the view that basic beliefs, which are justified but not by other beliefs, form the base for justifying all
other beliefs. According to foundationalists, experiences or sensations can justify these basic beliefs. However, this position
faces challenges in determining what constitutes a basic belief and how to distinguish them from non-basic ones. Moreover, the
idea of justification through experiences may not be as straightforward as it seems since our perceptions might be prone to error
or influenced by external factors.

In summary, while each position has its merits, they all face challenges in providing a satisfactory solution to the epistemic
regress problem. Foundationalism attempts to address the issue by introducing basic beliefs grounded in experiences, but it
struggles to clearly define and distinguish these beliefs from non-basic ones. Coherentism offers an alternative approach by
accepting circular justifications, yet this raises concerns about the reliability of such a system. Infinitism posits that
infinite chains of beliefs can provide justification; however, this seems impractical in real-world scenarios. Finally,
justification-skepticism questions the possibility of any justified belief, which is an extreme stance that many find hard to
accept. Ultimately, philosophers continue to engage with these ideas and refine their positions as they work towards a more
comprehensive understanding of justification and knowledge acquisition.

Checking x56
 This text discusses foundationalism, which is the view that certain beliefs are justified independently of other beliefs.
Specifically, it focuses on naïve foundationalism, the idea that if you have an R experience (e.g., a red experience), then you
are justified in believing that the object is R. However, this position is refuted by pointing out that if you believe your
senses might be inaccurate, then having a red experience does not justify the belief that there is a red object before you. This
shows that justification depends on other beliefs.

The text then introduces a priori foundationalism, which claims that we have a priori justification that our senses are accurate.
In this view, "My senses are probably accurate" is the basic belief and it is justified a priori. However, it's not clear if the
agent really has a priori justification for such a claim.

The text also points out two underlying problems with naïve foundationalism: first, it assumes an agent without any background
beliefs, which contradicts the probabilistic framework that requires prior probabilities. Second, if the agent is to get
justification for believing that the object is red, then their prior probabilities must encode beliefs such as "If I have a red
experience, then it probably is red."

In summary, while foundationalism might seem like a natural way to stop epistemic regress, it faces significant challenges. Naïve
foundationalism's claim that experiences can justify beliefs independently of other beliefs is refuted by considering the
possibility that our senses might be misleading. A priori foundationalism attempts to address this issue by positing a priori
justification for the accuracy of our senses, but it faces the challenge of establishing such justification.

Checking x57
 Dogmatist foundationalism is the view that in the right conditions, if it appears that p, then one has justification to believe
that p, even without independent justification to believe that one's senses are accurate. This justification exists as long as
there are no undermining beliefs present. The appeal of this view lies in the idea that we can take appearances at face value and
make instinctive and obvious inferences from them.

However, there are objections to dogmatist foundationalism. The first is that it violates the principle of conditionalization,
which states that P(H) = P(H|E). Dogmatism instead claims that PRed experience(Is-red) > P(Is-red|Looks-red) = 1/2.
Conditionalization is a widely held principle supported by arguments and intuition, so having to reject it is a major cost.

The second objection is the bootstrapping argument, which states that according to dogmatism, before the experience the agent
does not have a justified belief that her beliefs are accurate, but after the experience she does. This creates the odd situation
where the agent appears to have justified the belief that her senses are accurate merely by using them. This is problematic
because it suggests that an agent can generate justification for their senses being accurate through their experiences alone,
without any prior evidence or justification.

In summary, while dogmatist foundationalism has some appeal in its suggestion that we can take appearances at face value and make
justified inferences from them, the view faces significant objections related to violations of conditionalization and the
bootstrapping argument. These objections suggest that there are limitations to the extent to which we can rely solely on
appearances as a source of justification for our beliefs.

Checking x58
 This text discusses two epistemological theories: foundationalism and coherentism. Foundationalism, specifically Max Black's
defense of induction, aims to justify induction without relying on a priori principles. Black argues that using a rule to confirm
itself is acceptable, even without independent justification. However, an objection to this approach is that "nothing can count
as a reason for holding a belief except another belief" (Davidson 1986), meaning experiences cannot justify beliefs because they
are not made of concepts.

Coherentism argues that justification comes in degrees and is based on the coherence of a set of beliefs. Coherence is a
technical concept where a set of beliefs is more justified if its elements cohere better together. The structure of justification
in coherentism is circular, with each belief being justified by its coherence with other beliefs in the system. Justification
spreads gradually across the entire set of beliefs as mental capacities develop and the set of beliefs becomes increasingly
coherent.

Coherentism has intuitive motivation since experiences that cohere together can provide strong justification for a belief.
However, there are two objections to coherentism. The first is the isolation objection, which argues that sets of beliefs can
cohere without being connected to an agent's experiences. Coherentism considers such beliefs justified, but it seems clear they
are not. To avoid this problem, coherentists need to provide an account of how experiences play a role in justifying beliefs.

The second objection is the possibility of two mutually supporting belief systems that are both internally coherent but
contradict each other. Coherentism does not offer a clear way to determine which system is correct or more justified than the
other. Overall, while coherentism provides an alternative approach to justifying beliefs, it faces significant objections and
challenges.

Checking x59
 This passage discusses two objections to the coherentist theory of justification, which holds that a belief is justified if it
coheres with other beliefs in an agent's belief system. The first objection is that the coherentist has difficulty explaining how
experiences can play a role in justifying beliefs without themselves being justified. Coherentists like BonJour have suggested
that experiences can cause cognitively spontaneous beliefs, the contents of which are then justified by other beliefs. However,
this raises the question of how an agent can be justified in believing that they have such spontaneous beliefs. BonJour argues
that this can be explained by a "doxastic presumption" that we have introspective access to our own belief system and can
therefore form second-order beliefs about our first-order beliefs. However, many philosophers have criticized this idea as
problematic.

The second objection to coherentism is that it is unclear how beliefs that are individually unjustified can become justified
through their coherence with other beliefs. The passage uses the example of two witnesses who both report seeing a red table.
Even if the witnesses are not reliable on their own, one might think that their agreement would increase the likelihood that the
table is actually red. However, the probability raising theory of justification states that E (evidence) can only justify H (a
hypothesis) if P(H|E) > P(E). If two sources of information are probabilistically independent and do not increase the probability
of a hypothesis on their own, then they will not increase the probability of the hypothesis when they agree. This seems to
challenge coherentism, which requires that coherence among beliefs can justify those beliefs.

In summary, the two objections raised against coherentism are that it is difficult for coherentists to explain how experiences
can play a role in justification without themselves being justified, and that coherentism has difficulty showing how beliefs that
are individually unjustified can become justified through their coherence with other beliefs. The passage argues that these
objections pose serious challenges to the coherentist theory of justification.

Checking x60
 In this passage, the author discusses two objections to the philosophical theory of infinitism, which holds that justificatory
chains have infinite length. The first objection is that humans have finite minds and cannot have an infinite number of beliefs,
as required by infinitism. Infinitists respond to this objection by arguing that humans do have an infinite number of
dispositional beliefs, meaning beliefs that one would hold if they were to think about it long enough. The author suggests that a
probabilistic framework can help assuage the worries of those who object to the sufficiency of dispositional beliefs and their
infinite number.

The second objection to infinitism is that even if humans have an infinite number of beliefs, they may not be the right kind of
beliefs to justify other beliefs. The author suggests that when we ask for justification, we often arrive at beliefs about
appearances that seem to be justified by experiences rather than further beliefs. The challenge for infinitists is to explain how
an infinite chain of beliefs can justify a belief in the way that a direct experience can.

One potential criticism of infinitism is that it sets an unrealistic standard for justification. By requiring an infinite chain
of beliefs, infinitism may be setting the bar too high for what constitutes justified belief. This could lead to justification
skepticism, as finite minds would never be able to meet such a high standard. Additionally, the reliance on dispositional beliefs
may not provide sufficient justification, as these beliefs are not always consciously held or easily accessible. The second
objection highlights the importance of experience in justification, and infinitism's failure to account for this could be seen as
a weakness of the theory.

Checking x61
 This passage discusses infinitism about inference principles as a response to the demand for justification of a belief by an
experience. The infinitist argues that an infinite number of inference principles are needed for a belief to be justified, where
each inference principle connects the previous belief and experience to the current belief. However, this theory does not fit
with the original description of infinitism, as each member of the chain of beliefs requires justification, which the infinitist
has not provided. The passage also discusses coherence and suggests a measure of coherence proposed by Shogenji, but it is
criticized for being difficult to formally define.

Summary:

* Infinitism about inference principles argues that an infinite number of inference principles are needed for a belief to be
justified.
* Each member of the chain of beliefs requires justification, which the infinitist has not provided.
* Coherence is suggested as a measure of justification but is criticized for being difficult to formally define.
* Shogenji's measure of coherence compares the joint probability of a set of beliefs with the value that this joint probability
would take if these members were statistically independent.
* The measure of coherence is criticized for not capturing the concept of coherence accurately.

Checking x62
 The text discusses various philosophical views related to epistemology, the study of knowledge and belief. It explains the
epistemic regress problem, which arises when trying to justify beliefs, as each belief may require justification, leading to an
infinite regress. Three solutions to this problem are presented: foundationalism, coherentism, and infinitism. Foundationalism
argues that some beliefs do not require justification, serving as the foundation for other beliefs. Coherentism claims that a
belief is justified if it is part of a coherent system of beliefs, while infinitism holds that beliefs can be justified by an
infinite chain of reasons.

The text then asks which view best addresses the epistemic regress problem and whether they succeed in doing so. It also compares
foundationalism to the discussion of inductive probabilities and explores different versions of foundationalism, as well as its
similarities with coherentism. The role of cognitive spontaneous beliefs in solving the problem of isolation is questioned, along
with possible responses to Huemer's argument that agreeing with unreliable reports does not confirm a hypothesis.

The text raises concerns about infinitism's ability to provide an answer to what infinite beliefs are. Additionally, it presents
two premises (Conspiracy and Knowledge-requires-certainty) that lead to Knowledge-skepticism, which asserts that we don't know
anything. The text then examines the plausibility of these premises, considering whether knowledge can be distinguished from mere
belief or high credence rather than requiring absolute certainty.

Summary:

1. Epistemic regress and its solutions (foundationalism, coherentism, infinitism) are discussed.
2. The text asks which solution best addresses the problem and if they succeed.
3. Foundationalism is compared to discussions on inductive probabilities, with different versions of foundationalism explored.
4. Coherentism's similarities to a priori foundationalism are questioned, along with the role of cognitive spontaneous beliefs in
solving isolation problems.
5. Infinitism's ability to provide an answer regarding infinite beliefs is challenged.
6. The text explores two premises (Conspiracy and Knowledge-requires-certainty) that lead to Knowledge-skepticism, examining
their plausibility.

Criticism:
The text raises various questions about different philosophical views but does not provide thorough arguments or clear answers
for the advanced questions presented. Additionally, the critique of Conspiracy and Knowledge-requires-certainty premises could be
more detailed to better assess the validity of Knowledge-skepticism.

Checking x63
 The argument for Knowledge-requires-certainty is presented through three main arguments: the Lottery Paradox, a story about a
detective, and concessive knowledge claims. The first argument, the Lottery Paradox, argues that knowing a ticket will lose in a
lottery requires certainty because buying a ticket, even with a high probability of losing, is not completely crazy, and
acknowledging that one knows their ticket will lose leads to contradiction with Knowledge Closure (if A knows H1 and A knows H2,
then A is in a position to know H1&H2). The second argument involves a detective who cannot know the butler committed a murder if
there is a live possibility that the cook did it. To know the butler did it, Poirot would need to eliminate every possibility
incompatible with the butler having done it, aligning with Knowledge-requires-certainty.

A summary of these arguments suggests that knowing a proposition H requires certainty (degree of belief = 1) because
acknowledging knowledge in less-than-certain scenarios leads to contradictions and counterintuitive conclusions. This principle
would prevent one from knowing a ticket will lose in a lottery or knowing the butler committed a crime if there is any
possibility that another suspect might be responsible.

Criticism of these arguments could include questioning the assumption that knowing a proposition H requires certainty (degree of
belief = 1). One might argue that knowledge can still be obtained with high probability, even if not complete certainty.
Additionally, it may be questioned whether Knowledge Closure truly holds as a plausible principle in all cases, or if there are
exceptions when dealing with low-probability events like lotteries.

To further evaluate these arguments and their criticisms, one should consider various scenarios where knowledge is claimed
without complete certainty and assess the validity of such claims based on the presented arguments for
Knowledge-requires-certainty.

Checking x64
 The argument for Knowledge-requires-certainty is based on the idea that there is something wrong with concessive knowledge
claims, which are statements attributing knowledge of a fact to an agent while acknowledging that the fact might be false from
the agent's perspective. These claims seem contradictory, as they suggest that it is not possible for the agent that the fact is
false, while also claiming that it is possible. The Knowledge-requires-certainty principle resolves this contradiction by
asserting that A knowing H requires that it is not possible for A that not H.

The argument for Knowledge-skepticism combines Conspiracy and Knowledge-requires-certainty, concluding that one cannot know a
hypothesis if its probability is less than 100%. The knowledge-skeptic does not claim that the hypothesis is false or that there
is no justification for it. Instead, they argue that the possibility of error undermines knowledge.

Two major problems confront Knowledge-skepticism:

1. Linguistic problem: If most people's claims to know things are false, then their understanding of what they know is
systematically misguided. This requires a strong argument in its favor.
2. Epistemic problem: Accepting Knowledge-skepticism would mean abandoning the quest for knowledge and dismantling educational
institutions. This is a difficult conclusion to accept.

To address these concerns, proponents of Knowledge-skepticism can argue that, while it may be false that an agent knows
something, the statement "A knows H" can still be assertible or acceptable in conversation if the relevant alternatives have been
eliminated. They propose a distinction between knowing and the assertibility of knowledge claims:

1. Knowledge-requires-certainty: If A knows H, then A has eliminated all alternatives.
2. Assertibility condition for "A knows H": If "A knows H" is assertible, then A has eliminated all relevant alternatives.

This allows for the assertibility of knowledge claims when agents have eliminated relevant alternatives, even if they haven't
eliminated all possibilities.

Checking x65
 This passage discusses a skeptical theory that addresses problems with knowledge-skepticism. The theory argues that an agent,
such as Poirot in the example, can have knowledge even if they haven't eliminated all possibilities, as long as they have
eliminated all relevant alternatives. This is known as the Relevant Alternatives Theory of Knowledge. The passage also introduces
three theories for what determines which possibilities are relevant: Safety, Subject-Sensitivity, and Contextualism.

The Safety theory suggests that relevant possibilities are those similar to actuality, or those that could easily have been
actual. This is motivated by the idea that one cannot know something if they could very easily have been wrong. The
Subject-Sensitivity theory, on the other hand, posits that relevant possibilities depend on the subject's abilities and the
context in which they operate. Finally, the Contextualism theory argues that the relevance of possibilities is determined by the
social context and conventions.

One potential criticism of this skeptical theory is that it may be too permissive in accepting certain possibilities as
irrelevant. For example, a possibility might seem far-fetched or unlikely but still have some probability, such as the alien
murderer scenario mentioned earlier. In such cases, it could be argued that these possibilities should not be dismissed as
irrelevant without further investigation.

Another issue is how to determine which possibilities are relevant according to the Safety, Subject-Sensitivity, and
Contextualism theories. The passage touches upon this briefly but doesn't offer a clear solution. Developing consistent and
practical criteria for determining relevance would strengthen the Relevant Alternatives Theory of Knowledge.

In conclusion, while the skeptical theory presented here addresses some issues with knowledge-skepticism, it raises further
questions about how to define relevant possibilities and determine their relevance in various contexts.

Checking x66
 The three versions of the Relevant Alternatives Theory (RAT) discussed are Safety, Subject-Sensitivity, and Contextualism. These
theories reject the Knowledge-requires-certainty view by allowing A to know H even when the probability of H is less than 1,
while providing different explanations for why some possibilities are irrelevant.

Safety claims that a possibility is relevant if it is similar to the actual world. It can handle the Lottery argument, as the
possibility of winning is nearby and relevant, making one not know that their ticket will lose. However, Safety faces an issue
when the lottery is rigged, leading to knowing your ticket will lose even though there's no nearby possibility where your ticket
wins.

Subject-Sensitivity states that a possibility is relevant based on what's at stake for the subject; higher stakes mean more
possibilities are relevant. This theory can manage the Detective argument, as not all alternatives need to be eliminated, and
distant possibilities like an alien murderer don't need to be ruled out. However, Subject-Sensitivity struggles to explain why
Concessive Knowledge Claims seem false, even when the H possibility is far away.

Contextualism suggests that relevant possibilities vary depending on the speaker's context. It uses an analogy with the word
"tall" and claims that "knows" means different things in various conversational contexts. While Contextualism can account for
some aspects of Concessive Knowledge Claims, it faces challenges when it comes to explaining why such claims seem wrong
regardless of how far away the H possibility is.

In summary, each version of RAT has its strengths and weaknesses in addressing the arguments for Knowledge-requires-certainty.
Safety can handle the Lottery argument but struggles with rigged lotteries, Subject-Sensitivity can manage the Detective argument
but not Concessive Knowledge Claims, and Contextualism faces challenges when explaining why Concessive Knowledge Claims seem
false in any context.

Checking x67
 The text discusses different philosophical responses to the knowledge skeptic's argument that we cannot know anything due to our
lack of complete certainty. Knowledge-requires-certainty is the idea that knowing something requires having absolute certainty in
its truth, leaving no room for any possibility of error.

The text presents three strategies for denying this claim and responding to knowledge skepticism:

1. Accepting knowledge skepticism but arguing that it's not as bad as it seems by explaining how knowledge claims are still
assertible. This response does not directly challenge the idea that knowing requires certainty, instead of focusing on the
practical implications of accepting this kind of skepticism.
2. Safety: This view holds that one knows a proposition if and only if there is no possible world close enough to the actual
world where that proposition is false. The notion of "closeness" between worlds is crucial here. This strategy aims to rule out
certain alternatives as irrelevant by arguing they represent distant enough worlds from reality, which helps preserve knowledge
claims.
3. Subject-Sensitivity: According to this view, what counts as a relevant alternative depends on the agent's interests and stakes
in the situation. The idea is that if something does not matter much to an individual, it should not affect whether they can be
said to know that proposition. This strategy also attempts to make certain alternatives irrelevant based on factors specific to
the agent.
4. Contextualism: This philosophical view posits that what counts as a relevant alternative depends on the context of the
conversation. In other words, different conversations might have different standards for when an alternative is relevant and thus
whether knowledge exists. The text provides examples of how this can help respond to skeptical arguments, but it also raises
concerns about the potential inconsistency of knowledge claims based on shifting contexts.

The text concludes by acknowledging that it remains a topic of debate in contemporary epistemology as to whether any strategy for
making alternatives irrelevant and preserving knowledge claims can succeed. The study questions encourage readers to explore
these ideas further, including comparing different skeptical arguments and assessing the strengths and weaknesses of each
response.
