
                                    Provide a prompt, or type /help or ? to list commands.

[New Conversation]
(0.7/16384/0): default
flyxion@gpt-3.5-turbo-1106 1> /history 6

 • Fetching conversation history...


                                                       Recent history:

 1 2024-12-15 21:10: 1. "Free Energy Minimisation in Neuroscience", 2. "Perceptual Inference and Categorisation (6)
 2 2024-12-15 21:07: Finding the Way Out (5)
 3 2024-12-15 20:54: 1. Newton's Method of Fluxions, 2. Newton vs Leibniz: Calculus Rivalry (4)
 4 2024-06-04 21:01: The Power of Language: Uncovering Hidden Meanings (3)
 5 2024-02-15 18:24: Prominent Arabic Authors List (2)
 6 2023-12-26 23:47: SSH into Docker Container (1)

[New Conversation]
(0.7/16384/0): default
flyxion@gpt-3.5-turbo-1106 1> /chat 6

 • Fetching conversation history...


                                                  SSH into Docker Container



System:

You are a helpful assistant.



User:

Explain how to ssh into a docker container



Assistant:

To SSH into a Docker container, you can follow these general steps:

 1 Find the container ID or name: Use the docker ps command to list all running containers and note the ID or name of the
   container you want to SSH into.
 2 Start a new shell session in the container: Use the docker exec -it <container_id_or_name> /bin/bash command to start a new
   shell session inside the container. Replace /bin/bash with the appropriate shell if the container uses a different shell.
 3 Once inside the container, you can use the standard SSH commands to access other systems or perform any other tasks you
   need.

Please note that it's generally not recommended to SSH directly into a container, as it goes against the idea of containers
being self-sufficient and isolated. It's preferable to use Docker's built-in networking and communication mechanisms to
interact with containers.

[New Conversation]
(0.7/16384/0): default
flyxion@gpt-3.5-turbo-1106 1> /chat 5

 • Fetching conversation history...


                                                Prominent Arabic Authors List



System:

You are a helpful assistant.



User:

A list of famouse Arabic authors.



Assistant:

Certainly! Here are some famous Arabic authors:

 1 Naguib Mahfouz - Egyptian author and Nobel Prize winner
 2 Khalil Gibran - Lebanese-American poet and writer
 3 Alaa Al Aswany - Egyptian author known for "The Yacoubian Building"
 4 Amin Maalouf - Lebanese-French author known for historical fiction
 5 Radwa Ashour - Egyptian author known for her novel "Granada"

These are just a few examples of renowned Arabic authors. There are many more talented writers from the Arabic-speaking world.



User:

Expand with more detail and examples:

 1 Naguib Mahfouz Naguib Mahfouz, an Egyptian author and the first Arab Nobel Prize laureate in Literature, is renowned for
   his vivid portrayal of life in Cairo. Through his Cairo Trilogy ("Palace Walk," "Palace of Desire," "Sugar Street"),
   Mahfouz intricately explores the social and political evolution of Egyptian society through the 20th century. His work is a
   labyrinth of human emotions, weaving through themes of tradition versus modernity, the essence of religious and
   philosophical introspection, and the complexities of family and love, all set against the backdrop of a rapidly changing
   Egypt.



Assistant:


 2 Khalil Gibran Khalil Gibran, a Lebanese-American writer, poet, and visual artist, is best known for his book "The Prophet,"
   a collection of poetic essays. Written in English, "The Prophet" has been translated into numerous languages and has become
   one of the most translated and best-selling books in history. Gibran's works often explore themes of love, freedom, and the
   human condition, and his lyrical prose has made a lasting impact on readers around the world.
 3 Alaa Al Aswany Alaa Al Aswany is an Egyptian author and dentist whose novel "The Yacoubian Building" garnered international
   acclaim. The novel offers a multi-layered portrayal of Egyptian society, tackling issues such as corruption, class
   struggle, and the struggle for personal and political freedom. Al Aswany's writing is characterized by its unflinching
   portrayal of contemporary Egyptian life and its political and social challenges.
 4 Amin Maalouf Amin Maalouf is a Lebanese-French author known for his historical fiction and essays. His work often delves
   into themes of identity, migration, and the clash of civilizations. In novels such as "Leo Africanus" and "The Crusades
   Through Arab Eyes," Maalouf skillfully weaves historical events with compelling storytelling, offering readers a nuanced
   understanding of the interconnectedness of cultures and the impact of history on individual lives.
 5 Radwa Ashour Radwa Ashour, an Egyptian author and academic, is known for her novel "Granada," which is part of her
   acclaimed "Granada Trilogy." Ashour's writing is deeply rooted in historical and political contexts, and her exploration of
   memory, identity, and the human experience has earned her widespread recognition in the Arab literary world. Through her
   evocative prose, Ashour brings to life the complexities of Arab history and the enduring impact of colonialism and
   conflict.

These authors have made significant contributions to Arabic literature, offering diverse perspectives and narratives that
resonate with readers worldwide.



User:

See if you can write their names in Arabic.



Assistant:

Certainly! Here are the names of the authors written in Arabic:

 1 Naguib Mahfouz - نجيب محفوظ
 2 Khalil Gibran - جبران خليل جبران
 3 Alaa Al Aswany - علاء الأسواني
 4 Amin Maalouf - أمين معلوف
 5 Radwa Ashour - رضوى عاشور

I hope this helps!

[New Conversation]
(0.7/16384/0): default
flyxion@gpt-3.5-turbo-1106 1> /chat 4

 • Fetching conversation history...


                                      The Power of Language: Uncovering Hidden Meanings



System:

You are a helpful assistant.



User:

Hello everybody. Welcome. It's going to be a little huffing and I'm climbing some stairs up the side of a relatively steep
incline. There are strange features of English and I don't know enough about other human languages to be certain, but it seems
extremely likely that the languages carry a payload. And we're not inclined to be aware of this or understand it ordinarily
unless we have an unusual purpose or we are very passionately trying to understand it or our curiosity is profound, right?
Really want to know hidden things. I've spoken of this before when I've said that our experience of in-languaging smuggles
something in. It smuggles in a bunch of weird games and some of these are metaphors. Some of them are sayings, right?
Figurative speech. But they are also invisibly powerful inclinations to think about identity meaning transactions and
relationships in very specific ways that have a lot to do with the historical development of the language we speak. A bunch of
Verte China. It's kind of crazy. You find weird things along the street in San Francisco, believe me. So, for example, there's
an us versus them. There's a very strong us versus them, what would I call it, principle that hovers almost tyrannically in
the background over modern English, particularly as it's spoken in the United States, but probably something similar is going
on elsewhere. There's a very us versus them-ist feature of the underpinnings of the suppositions we acquire naturally by
speaking our language with other speakers who have also acquired them and communicate them these little figures of speech,
right? These almost cartoon ideas. It is as if they are actually sketched figures, but in language. I wonder what today modern
young people would think of the phrase Uncle Sam wants you, but in my mind it flashes a kind of a red, white, and blue image
of, you know, Colonel Sanders' weirder brother pointing his index finger out of the frame of the poster directly at me as if
he actually sees me. And in English it's worse because, in a sense, to be seen is to be seized by being seen, and to see is to
seize. This is the kind of dangerous, weird, pun-like understructure that we didn't invent most of us are unaware of. And
there are aspects of our cognition and psyche that are aware of them. Making them conscious, well, in either way you're going
to have trouble, but you'd probably rather have the trouble with what you can see than have a lot of trouble around stuff you
can't see. You don't notice. You don't have the, the perspectival awareness of the kind to look from a certain angle within
yourself at how behavior is structured and so forth, how language structures behavior. And there are many experts of different
fields who are profoundly aware of this in a way that is technical. So languages bring with them payloads and the problem with
ours is that the payload isn't old enough or rich enough compared to a language that was spoken. I mean, what is English? It's
a bastard child of the speech of the United Kingdom or something. In fact, we might even say that one of the weirdest things
about English's payload is that it kind of encourages megalomania, right? I can see a cartoon where somebody's thinking
carefully about the evolution of English and discovers a leg of the history where kings are giving legal decrees and they're
they're declaring them and they're writing them. And you know, you can be the king too, just speak, speak the language of the
king, you know, and take the K off, right? Kinglish becomes English. Like literally, it's as if her ancestors were saying,
it's kingish speaking. It's a language of local authority, declaration, separate persons. It dispenses with timelines and
relationships as easily as a hitman loads his gun, right? This stuff in the wrong hands is lethally dangerous and it comes to
us from histories that were profoundly fraught, conflicted, acting sometimes amorally as if the words told them what to do.
This is a people captured by the authority of language. We are that people. And if you look closely, you will see if you study
how people think, how they think about how they speak, how their behavior changes if you modulate a couple of variables in the
language, how under some circumstances ordinary people will are capable of saying things so profound that you might only hear
such an utterance once in your lifetime and under other circumstances articulate people cower and begin to mumble
incoherently. It's not that we have language. That would be a really wonderful thing. Language has us. That is not a wonderful
thing. That is an insane thing. And I can hear countervailing opinions. We use language coherently. It's helpful, useful for
memory, the organization of identities, databases in memory and complex relations between features in memory that now have a
new way of existing in memory that isn't merely straight up nervous system, but includes some map making techniques. And
mostly these are around identity function or activity, identity activity, and what you might call origin or clade, which class
of thing, situation, being, relationship, perspective, understanding, so forth. Categoring, categorical class profusion is one
of the problems we get. But the classes can be relatively simply stated. It's an object or it's being. And if it's being, it
may have you know other properties such as what class is it, animal, vegetable, mineral. Of course, mineral is not usually
considered a being. For some reason, the privilege of beingness is reserved for organisms in many of these tables. That could
be extremely problematical because it'd be a really staggeringly important thing to get wrong if you were going to get
something wrong. To evict being from objects, if indeed there's something like a superposition over intelligences that is
involved with how objects are structured and why they persist and so on. My point though is that the languages carry payloads
in older languages. They also have dangerous parts of the payload, but they have traditional features that are very complex
and rich. One would probably be endlessly edified. I'm suspecting anyway from the profuse intelligences and playful
perspectives one might find in a conversation in Sanskrit among scholars of their language, history, philosophy. There tend to
be this clade of folks and they're all throughout the world, but in India the Gurus are, many of them are quite profoundly
learned. And we have quite profoundly learned people over here see there's that us and them game, them and us. We have meaning
Americans. So some of the older languages, large parts of the payload that get imported as you become language are much more
complex and much less prone to the idea of the sovereignty of the individual, which easily breeds war. If you're by yourself
in the world you better be mighty tough because any old thing can eat you up. The suppositions of individuality, I mean it's
very hard to understand if there were any successful individuals historically. People who just became, you know, somehow on
their own, in many cases, it could easily be understood as a fate worse than death. Why would anyone want to be alone? The
only benefit of being alone, well it's not true. I have to be careful. I'm actually, I've fallen under the sway of some of the
baggage in English that I'm trying to point out. See I too am subject to it. But then there are also, so I think okay what are
we going to do then? What's the, there's the problem, what's the solution? I heard some women say today. Well if we can teach
each other we can easily discover the baggage together if we are looking for it. And not in the sense of having a kind of a
witch hunt either. Yelling at the language, that's a dumb idea. We just would improve, you know, make better linguistic
choices and we'd probably modify intelligently, continually update the way we relate with categories themselves and we'd
realize the difference between the words we're making in situations that we're using them in and for. We would teach each
other to be aware of some of this baggage. I think there's a book, this is Lakoff, one of the authors, maybe, metaphors we
live by or something like this. And that shows a little bit of the baggage but just the metaphoric stuff. There's all kinds of
other stuff, not just metaphoric figures and not just rhetorical figures, little phrases that indicate ideas. You know, let
your enemy go first. If there's a problem on the battlefield, let someone else take the damage, which is another idea. We're a
bit like pigeons in this sense, right? We clump together in cities, which does provide some degree of protection of
individuals, quote-unquote, but also many new threats. I think throughout the history of our people, you know, our species,
there were very few situations where individuals were common, though there were unusual persons whose relationship with their
originating peoples became very unusual. There have always been those. There have always been something that resembles a
doctor, something that resembles a philosopher, something that resembles a seer or a prophet, something that resembles a scout
or a ranger, something that resembles a knight, a kind of a blessed battle knight who takes on weird, difficult enemies.
There've always been these kinds of things, these kinds of roles and persons in human history, always. In fact, if you go back
very far, you're probably going to find that if you could just transport yourself back to such a situation, as an unseen
observer say, as an observer that having no effect, the first problem you run into is someone would realize you are the seen
one. They can't see you, but somebody will realize that you're seeing them. Little girl, old woman, you know, the unusual
teenage boy who sees things and doesn't speak in the same vernacular. You see, that's part of the payload of the language.
It's vernacular. That's the word I was, the concept I was looking for. It's part of the payload. It's not the whole thing.
There's a bunch of games about value and identity, how to evaluate, when to evaluate. Again, you can see this problem where
it's very, like English really is more like Kinglish. I'm the god of the world. I can say whatever I want. I can do whatever I
want. I have no, there's no constraining web of conserved traditions, relationships, heritages, lineages, families. That's all
gone. You're on your own with a gun. I mean, this is the proposition, right? You got a car. I'm just remembering that, that
crazy quote from Wise Blood, I think it is, that was used so brilliantly in the beginning of Jesus built my hot rod. How does
it go? Man, I used to be able to do it with fervor. Is it even worth it if I can? Where you come from is gone. Where you
thought you're gone, weren't never there. It goes on something about like, nobody with a good car needs to worry about
nothing. Right? And this is the spirit of the English we are taught. It's you are alone. You are by yourself. You are an
individual. You determine what is true, what is good, what is wrong, what is evil, you know, locally yourself. You make all
the decisions. You make all the evaluations. Somehow you're supposed to be as intelligent as a group of seven people with 12
different kinds of skills all by yourself. And the insecurity, the inward insecurity that this naturally generates, this lack
of one's inaction people, which is counterfeited in jobs and companies, right? Right? This lack of approval, reassurance,
cooperation, playful, you know, leaping up the developmental ladders together while resolving important, like actually noble
missions that matter. This is built into our people and compromised by our culture. We were not all born for the same thing,
but we were not born to be isolates. There were isolates occasionally. There were scouts who didn't live in the camp, right?
They traveled with the people maybe in a tribe, right? They would travel with them, but they were never there. They were
always out and they would come back and bring intelligence about, you know, the extended terrain and what they saw and sensed
in it. That kind of thing. And you can see that in a way many humans try to do this. They're trying to do it. All humans have
a deep relationship with predicting the future. We pretend in our materialist worldview this is supposed to be impossible.
Life organisms on earth have been doing that since fucking cell number one. There's nothing on earth that doesn't do that. And
if someone asks me, well show me the physical evidence, what I'm probably going to say is the blinders that you're currently
wearing are so thick that the evidence your own hand comprises evades you. How will I show you anything? People who are
determined to not see and not learn and to, you know, sit on the kingly throne of their, the fact that they speak English and
maybe can do some math if they're lucky. In terms of the rest of the world, the hubris of that is unimaginable. You know,
there are fifth graders in Pakistan that can out teach our calculus teachers in universities. We are not as a people well
educated. And so you can see how the English speakingness creates an inherent insecurity leads to an inherent insecurity
because we speak as if we are kings and queens and you'll hear very confused humans on the internet saying things about like
this. We are kings, we are queens, we are goddesses, we are gods. It's not entirely that they're wrong, but that particular
way of holding onto it or broadcasting it has nothing to do, it's you're doing the opposite of what you're saying. Cognitive
and relational and behavioral sovereignty isn't all it's cracked up to be when it leads to isolation and, you know, the sorts
of despair that lead to people to just play video games or just drink themselves silly and watch, you know, streaming shows or
whatever the lost, whatever the catastrophe of semi-vampiric consumption is. And I'm not yelling at those people. The context
we're living in is so, it's literally like a vacuum of 20 of the things that we need every day just to be human together or
even by ourselves. And it doesn't mean we have to all be clumped together all the time either. It means we have to have
meaningful roles, relationships and dimensions of identity that we enact together successfully for learning and mutual
benefit. That one thing, that thing, we need that. And some will say, well, I don't really, and I'll say, well, I hope you're
not working or anything. Well, I need money. Well, why do you need money? I mean, the conversation quickly travels into an
exploration of how we get set up to try to acquire an abstraction of relationships, value, nourishment, healing, love, so
forth. I was thinking earlier that it's very peculiar if I say, for example, in English, and I'm sure this is this part kind
of this sort of weirdness is probably true in other languages. If I say to you, I'm not going to talk to you about leverage or
succession. You can see that the speech act itself is doing the opposite of what it is saying. And this is a kind of, this is
a figure of speech. This is one of the forms of vernacular. Similarly, if I say, truly, our next guest needs no introduction,
what do you suppose is coming after that? And so you would imagine that intelligent people would realize there's a problem
with the construct, but it's become traditional to employ a flawed construct in this particular case, in the case of that
specific figure of speech. So it is possible if I were to try to say to you, you know, I really, really mean everything I'm
saying. It's not very helpful, but if I show you that I mean what I'm saying, if my passion is contagious, if my curiosity is
contagious, there won't be any use in me saying things about meaning things or not. If you place a delicious meal before
people, they will enjoy and consume it. If you keep talking about how good the meal is, many of them will eventually depart.
They won't even eat it. And so this is another thing that English imports. You know, Aryans, braggadocio, bragging,
peacocking, which in case it isn't obvious, you know, older peoples, they have some unique people, you know, language to
language and people to people. They have some unique recollection that part of what their languages import is a tradition
against certain kinds of speech. And moderns might say, oh yes, they're very superstitious about speaking. No. Even though
there may be features of that that aren't, there may be some threads of that throughout the language. What's actually in there
is intelligence about the unexpected consequences of inelegant speech or hubris in speaking or arrogance in speaking. Think of
how many people you know who will think something resembling if you really want something, if you want something that's really
difficult to obtain or very precious. Don't speak about it. Or you can imagine some teenagers driving, driving the car
downtown on a Friday night. It's all packed down there. There's no parking. And they're trying to find a parking space, you
know, and they almost get one, you know, something happens where someone says something about like, I think we're going to get
a space and the other two freak out and say he jinxed us. And then a few moments later, a space that they were next in line
for gets taken, right? And they think, oh, it was the speaking was a problem. There are many traditions about clumsy speech,
inelegant speech. And by inelegant, I mean crude. Surely, it should be obvious, that the way we relate with language has a
structural effect on our imagination, our cognition, how we respond to ambiguity, what causes or relaxes vigilance in us, all
of these things. So, you know, I never realized before tonight, many of the things that I have spoken around, particularly the
whole Kinglish thing. And the irony and danger of speaking as if one is the pinnacle of authority, that the one from which all
measurement comes, right? That is actually the kingly, queenly power is to measure, to meet out. This is the power that is
given to judges, in a sense, in courtrooms, which is one of the weirdest caricatures of justice imaginable. Though any
reduction in humans torturing other humans makes me happy, but transforming it so that it's not physically vicious to the
degree it is emotionally and relationally vicious, it's very strange. And by the way, you can see, it should be obvious, that
solitude and individuality, the namelessness in a prison experience is meant to be torture. Of course, they take many freedoms
away. But it's funny, because by doing that, they incline the prisoners to cooperation. Problem is, the prisoners have been
scripted to form and obey mostly malignant hierarchies, what are called cars in prison. You have to pick one when you go in.
It's the worst boy network, mostly, the people who are willing to act morally and with violence run the system. It's an
underworld inside our world, and that's a world made by English. The payloads of other countries carry traditional ideas of
filial virtue, communal unity, mutual caretaking, respect for elders and children. And often, there's some problematical
authority that comes along with it, respect for the provisional leader of the counterfeit country we grew up in. I think the
goal of our country was to be, was to resist counterfeiting, in a sense, which is a very ironic mission to undertake. Because,
in the same way I said, if I say I'm not going to speak to you tonight about leverage and succession, right, once I announce
leverage and succession, if I announce we will work together to ensure that our country can't be counterfeited or stolen by
bad ideas, people, lethal games of language and concept, we will keep the light of human relational, communal, and cognitive
liberty alive together. You know, four of the people signing the document are going to defect tomorrow. There is so much money
to be made, so much gold to be stolen so many lives, to be converted to misery for the sake of tokens, numbers. And we
inherited these near term histories during our lifetimes, while English changed around us to reflect the ever deeper
counterfeiting of virtue, verity, and vigilance. And when I say virtue, I mean the accessible origins of that principle as
they exist in our own hearts, not some dictatorial list where we can check off the boxes. I mean the real stuff. And
similarly, a verity, a language that jump starts an amnesis, the capacity of a language to deliver a payload that's incredibly
profound and also largely missing the pathogens. There must be languages that have, there are branches of every language that
carry noble and heroic payloads. There are branches. Crucially, without being surrounded by a milieu of rich, creative,
literary, philosophical, and scientific diversity, and conversations, and debate, and exploration, and celebration, and
literal heroism, how will we remember what it means to be human together? You know, I'm not saying it can't happen to you at
church or at school or in the Air Force or the Army. You're going to get something in there and I know what it'll be, but
it'll be highly in service of counterfeit virtue and straight up lying and straight up back-stabbing, back-dealing. It almost
doesn't even matter if there's a devil or not because the humans sure act like there is one and there's a branch of us that's
competing to enact it and that branch tends to hold power because the altruists aren't particularly, you know, they're not
particularly sword and sorcery inclined. They're not warriors. And once you involve warriors, it seems you involve many
dangers for counterfeiting. The problem though, it seems to me, I think it's very ironic and strange that I'm saying this, is
that, okay, your best few, your five best plays are always going to be in the direction of establishing something so amazing
and human and intelligent that nobody wants to be left out. And then making that thing self-dissolving so that it has to be
reformed from new principles fairly regularly so that it doesn't become sclerotic and then you try not to conserve
hierarchical power in the structure of the systems, the teams, the families, and so forth. I wonder how far this street goes.
There's a way to create a self-dissolving structure that leaps ahead in its capacity to perceive and resolve dangers. And it
can do the same thing creatively, technologically, scientifically, but it can do it much better because if the recipients of
advancements are trustworthy, we can go a lot faster together. Also, the problems our infrastructure, societal infrastructure
faces are monumental and the existing stuff, existing human electronic and physical infrastructure, is delicate, outdated,
prone to fall apart on its own. If we're lucky enough that nobody intentionally takes it down. So that stuff has to be remade.
Our own government was supposed to be remade regularly. I think they thought 25 or more years per pulse, something like this
maybe. Kinglish. Yes, it's weird. The connotative structure of English serves the conceptual proposition of single persons.
Which that kind of inbreeding, the force of the inbreeding of a competitive perspective, us and themism, should be obvious
there. You better be able to table a lot of power as an individual if you want safety or you have to gather together with many
others somehow and how then do you preserve your individualness. You can. It's what are called business relationships. Another
idea imported along with the English we learn. Business relationships are not personal relationships. And vice versa. Though,
of course, at higher hierarchies, that's for the low hierarchies, for the higher ones, they go together. You always have both,
or you often have both. You know, if you joined a monastery, say, you decided you would study Zen or Advaita Vedanta or
Sufism. You would begin a new way of relating with being human, a contemplative way in these cases, I think. But also a
educational transformation unless, you know, most of the people I knew, for example, who studied Zen, had very large libraries
and some of them had taught themselves Sanskrit. Others had taught themselves Chinese. These are not easy tasks. The Sanskrit
is probably easier in some ways. God, I hope the street goes somewhere useful. I think it's going way too far away from my
house. I've gone for a much longer walk than I had planned. So, there are branches of study. You know, if you read through
philosophy or if you study mathematics, you essentially, what you're doing is you're recapitulating the history of
mathematical development in our species. It's the same thing with philosophy, the study of ancient languages. What you are
doing is you're having an intellectual an amnesis, you see, unforgettable. And this is very profound. So, this is what I mean
by there are branches in our culture if your parents are artists and complex thinkers and creative or they are writers or
poets or musicians or all three, you will at least have a local example of a milieu in which discovery, exploration, play,
rediscovery, awe, wonder, enthusiasm, perhaps ecstasy or even visions is not, these are common. You know, the garden has all
the plants, right? You just dunk her up with, we just grow beans around here, son, and we don't lack strangers that you find
all over the United States. Again, though, any community is a bit like the topology of English. There's going to be artists
and creatives and intellectuals and secret agents, you know, hidden throughout the terrain. It'd be good if we had a signal
whereby we could easily recognize one another and authenticate our identities. That'd be fun. Or even a way of signaling
rather than a signal, right? A way of signaling that would evolve. Good languages do this. I think, Kinglish weirdly is a
slave language. And there have been attempts to fix the problem before Esperanto might be one of them. I don't know a lot
about it, but we who speak it and write it and read it, presuming we can much, would do well to understand some of the threat
landscape of what English imports into thought, semantics, and expectation. And at the same time forge new ways of referring
and playing in that field that preserve our communality, our common concerns, interest identities, and so forth. Where the
actual hell am I? What ridiculous street is this? Okay, I get it. Kind of not. That's not Clarendon. I think I walked to
another city accidentally. This is so fucked. Yeah, I walked way, way far away. All right, so if I say to you, I'm not going
to be speaking this evening to you about succession or leverage, then you can see that I'm doing the opposite of what I am
saying. Another very strange modern common vernacular that is ironic is something like, before saying something, someone says
to you, I'm not going to lie, I thought we were going to the football field right on. As if they're doing you the unusual
favor of not lying, which is pretty strange. It's also become common, and I sometimes do it, but to make a statement and then
congratulate myself or pretend that you're correct congratulating me, and you don't even have to go all the way. You can just
go like, you can say part of it, and people know what's going on. They know what time it is, and there's another colloquialism
in English, what time it is. It's funny when I was talking about them earlier, I was trying to think of someone they just were
not coming to my consciousness. So there is, though, a way of doing the opposite of that. So instead of doing the opposite of
what I am claiming I am right now doing, I'm not going to talk, I'm talking about, you know, SNL, L&S, whatever. Does this
street go somewhere useful? I am so fucking lost. Okay, I guess not. I mean maybe, who knows, I can't fucking tell. There I am
speaking ungracefully. Oh my, my, my. So if you imagine a bubble of many bubbles, and each of the bubbles are possible choices
or actions, thoughts or ideas, words, etc. So before I make a sentence, I do have the opportunity to imagine any kind of
sentence that can be said, and to, they're from traverse what we might think of as a series of choices, selections, negations,
and so forth. We could think of it that way, probably isn't exactly that way. But I could think of these possibilities and
then I form the actual sentence or sequence of sentences that I have just spoken to you now. So what I have done is I have
told you what I am doing while I am doing it, I have done what I am saying. It's the opposite of doing the opposite of what I
am saying. I will not speak of thus and such. It's very difficult in English to try to evade the problems that arise in
negation. I didn't do that. It's already too much weirdness. It's very strange, all of this stuff. What the hell is going on?
There are street signs where there are no streets, where the flapping slot am I? Okay, there's a street sign here for the sake
of one house or something. I don't know. This is nuts. Oh, I see. Okay, I see. This is probably where I want to go. I don't
fucking know. Let's try it. So it is possible to do things that you are saying in English and there are certain kinds of
speech that actually allow you to accomplish a non-ordinary action by speaking very intelligently about the potentials. Right?
About the, where does this go? I have no idea where the fuck I am. I mean, it is so bizarre. Oh, this is not where I want to
go. Okay, I'm just lost. There is a lot of detour around here. It's interesting to be lost, but it's a little bit late at
night for me. Okay, so you know, language is a magical thing. It becomes an everyday thing. Many humans have discovered that
it's not necessarily that there are magic words, quote unquote. Rather, it is that there are magical ways of relating words
and consciousness that produce very unusual and totally unexpected results. Okay, this is so funny. I'm going to have to
backtrack. I basically almost did walk to another city. This is fucked. So when you think about the difference, think about
the difference in someone, in someone's ability to see into identity possibilities, situations, problems, in seven ways rather
than three. So the other night I was in a conversation and someone asked me essentially what happened to cause the humans to
go insane and become bad to each other in the world, at least at the group levels a lot, and certainly in many of our cohorts.
And I said, well, in the first story, there was something that actually resembles evil and we couldn't keep away from it. It
was attractive, we grabbed some, we got it on us and it got inside us. In the second story, we had intelligent parents and
they went away. There was an accident or something and they went away. And then in the space where the intelligent beings had
interacted directly with our minds, the shadow of their absence terrified us and we acquired an inner shadow and it's like
this. In the third story, the onset of tool building causes a problem in how we structure consciousness and makes us
susceptible to what I call thrips, which are sort of like viral behavioral language, something like that. In the next story,
there are two primary colors, red and blue. We once had wise relation with both of them, something in the structure of our
minds changed. We lost relation with them and the imbalance produced an absence in us that could act as if it were a being.
And we struggle with this. Now, I could keep making stories or rather vignettes, but what I want you to understand is we are
trained to a very problematic form of consciousness that I call one thing mind, one thing. That's just this, one thing mind.
But what we really want to have is like five thing mind. Five thing mind, not that. One thing mind, kill yourself, run into
wall, not good, blinding. And English imports this one valued identification system. And we want to preserve that where it is
useful and surpass it in our use of the language so that we realize quickly. It's not just this, it's not just that. One
valued thinking. Unfortunately, there are people out there who are like, I wonder what those UFOs are? Well, they're not one
thing. They might not even be a category of phenomena we have a placeholder for in our lexicon. What if they represent, for
example, the category, what if they represent, this will take me, what if they represent the super category of identity,
meaning of whatness and who-ness? If they are the super category, they are not what or who. They are is, being, in, relation.
What you do, what you don't do, this changes who you are and who they are. And this is intelligent. And this is actually how
damn near everything actually is. You know, Joe, most of the time, amazing guy, catch him on a bad day, not a lot of fun to be
around, threaten one of his children. The monster in Joe will certainly come out. Unless Joe's like super wise, in which case
he will liquidly transform and both resolve the problem and not have to become a monster. So, identity. Now, if there's a
position above our categories, we should be familiar with that position. That is where our mind should dwell. This is a
structural feature of our very confused relationships with semantic qualities and positions. Like, ordinarily, as English
speakers, we inhabit a position underneath the lexicon or at best co-equal with it. We should not only inhabit a position
above the lexicon, cognitively, relationally, in our awareness of the peculiarities of speaking and thinking in words, writing
and so forth. We should naturally draw each other up above the lexicon and up above the semantics if anyone should begin to
fall down into that. Ancient peoples were quite good at this. They knew the danger of believing the language. They knew the
danger of falling beneath it and having it tell you what you are, who to be, blah, blah, blah. And this isn't just a
patriarchy problem. This is a problem with the capacity to speak as an individual, as if you're individual. This comes with
that mess. It's not merely patriarchy. Though, you know, patriarchy and the suffering of many other, many what? Many clades,
many groups, many persons is certainly part and parcel of the payload of English. Okay, is this the way I want to go? This
looks like it might be. Although, I really hope, oh fuck, where the flappity slot am I? And which way do I have to go? Okay,
it looks like this way. That's my thought. That says this is a dead end, though. So, I don't know if Park 4 is small. Let's
see where I am here. I sure hope I'm not going up that fucking mountainside. That is not going to work. That stairway is crazy
insane. We're talking about, yeah, that shit loopy. It would be like climbing up the side of a pyramid or something. So, you
can see that there's a position that is something like the un, the unformed potential for categories themselves. In fact, the
word category refers to that space, right? It's not a category. It's the categories. And there's a position above that, I
think, which is before the kinds of distinction that would allow us to impose the concept of category. We want to be familiar
with the places above language and remain aware as we descend into those, into the behaviors of speaking and writing and
thought, so that we retain a sort of what, like those old diver's lines, right? Before they had tanks, they would lower guys
in suits with air hoses, right? We need to retain a link to the upscale before of language and to the human, the aspects of
human intelligence above language. The aspects of our own thought, feeling, not knowing, sensing, perspective that are above
language and then travel down into it intelligently from above. Then we will see many features that are otherwise invisible to
us. It gives us, it dimensionalizes the perspective in a variety of new ways. And we, when we tell, if we make a metaphor or
something, it's often better to make two or three rather than one. And we should avoid the construct, it's just blah, blah,
blah. It's just this, it's just that. Except, you know, I'm not saying never, we should never use such language, but it's very
deceptive to the mind. Soon we think we know what everything is, which is a huge problem because we don't really know what
anything is at all. We have a bunch of tokens that we paint on familiar phenomena. That's it. The name of the token doesn't
tell you what that is, doesn't tell you much. In fact, it's deceptively convenient. It reminds me of American culture,
deceptively convenient, hiding a bitter isolation, loneliness, lack of communal, vast lack of communal organs. It is a
profound liberty to be able to forge a complex cognition on, you know, within the manifold of our human experience. But it's
also very dangerous. It easily leads to unexpected and often invisible deprivations. And so there's a vast terrain of
impoverishments that many of us have suffered at the hands of the language we speak. It behooves us to gently and
intelligently recompose ourselves beyond the confines to help each other to recover the kinds of liberty in our thought,
considerations, learning, and creativity that are natural to our people, but largely prohibited and counterfeited by our
common cultures. This is my dream, and I hope we will pursue it together. Thanks for joining me. Bye-bye for now. /read



Assistant:

It seems like you have been exploring and contemplating the complexities of language and its impact on human cognition and
behavior. It's evident that you have delved into deep philosophical and linguistic considerations. If you have any specific
questions or if there's anything specific you'd like to discuss or explore further, feel free to let me know. I'm here to
help!



User:

A summary



Assistant:

In the text, the speaker reflects on the complex nature of language and its impact on human cognition and behavior. They
explore how language shapes our thoughts, perceptions, and interactions, and express a desire to move beyond the constraints
of language to promote deeper understanding, communal unity, and creative freedom. The speaker contemplates the potential
dangers and deprivations caused by the limitations of language and encourages a collective effort to explore and transcend
these limitations.

[New Conversation]
(0.7/16384/0): default
flyxion@gpt-3.5-turbo-1106 1> /chat 3

 • Fetching conversation history...


                            1. Newton's Method of Fluxions, 2. Newton vs Leibniz: Calculus Rivalry



System:

You are a helpful assistant.



User:

Fluxion is Newton's term for a derivative. He originally developed the method at Woolsthorpe Manor during the closing of
Cambridge due to the Great Plague of London from 1665 to 1667. Newton did not choose to make his findings known (similarly,
his findings which eventually became the Philosophiae Naturalis Principia Mathematica were developed at this time and hidden
from the world in Newton's notes for many years). Gottfried Leibniz developed his form of calculus independently around 1673,
7 years after Newton had developed the basis for differential calculus, as seen in surviving documents like “the method of
fluxions and fluents..." from 1666. Leibniz, however, published his discovery of differential calculus in 1684, nine years
before Newton formally published his fluxion notation form of calculus in part during 1693.[3]

Impact The calculus notation in use today is mostly that of Leibniz, although Newton's dot notation for differentiation x ˙
{\displaystyle {\dot {x}}} is frequently used to denote derivatives with respect to time.

Rivalry with Leibniz Newton's Method of Fluxions was formally published posthumously, but following Leibniz's publication of
the calculus a bitter rivalry erupted between the two mathematicians over who had developed the calculus first, provoking
Newton to reveal his work on fluxions.

Newton's development of analysis For a period of time encompassing Newton's working life, the discipline of analysis was a
subject of controversy in the mathematical community. Although analytic techniques provided solutions to long-standing
problems, including problems of quadrature and the finding of tangents, the proofs of these solutions were not known to be
reducible to the synthetic rules of Euclidean geometry. Instead, analysts were often forced to invoke infinitesimal, or
"infinitely small", quantities to justify their algebraic manipulations. Some of Newton's mathematical contemporaries, such as
Isaac Barrow, were highly skeptical of such techniques, which had no clear geometric interpretation. Although in his early
work Newton also used infinitesimals in his derivations without justifying them, he later developed something akin to the
modern definition of limits in order to justify his work.



Assistant:

Indeed, Sir Isaac Newton's method of Fluxions was a precursor to what we now know as differential calculus. It was developed
during a time of great upheaval due to the Great Plague, but Newton kept his findings hidden for many years. The term
"fluxion" itself was used by Newton to denote the rate of change or the velocity at which a quantity changes.

Gottfried Leibniz, a contemporary of Newton, independently developed his own form of calculus around the same time. This led
to a fierce rivalry between the two over the claim to the invention of calculus. Leibniz's notation is more widely used in
today's calculus, though Newton's notation is still used in some contexts, particularly in physics where it is used to denote
time derivatives.

Despite initial skepticism from his peers, Newton's work laid the groundwork for the development of analysis, a branch of
mathematics that deals with limits and the differentiation and integration of functions. His work on Fluxions was a key step
in the development of modern calculus and his concepts of limits and infinitesimals helped to provide a more rigorous
foundation for these ideas.



User:

Could you give some examples and analogies to help explain it?



Assistant:

Sure! Let's start with the idea of a derivative, which fluxion is essentially referring to.

Imagine you are driving a car. You start from a standstill and then push the accelerator. Your car's speed begins to increase.
If you were to graph this, with time on the x-axis and speed on the y-axis, you might see a line that slopes upwards as you
gain speed over time.

The derivative (or the fluxion, in Newton's term) of your speed is the rate at which the speed is changing at any given
moment. It's like taking a snapshot of your speedometer at a precise moment while you're accelerating. The derivative of your
speed with respect to time (denoted as speed') would be the speed at that snapshot in time.

Now, let's consider a physical analogy for the concept of infinitesimals, which is related to the idea of derivatives.

Imagine you're trying to measure the length of a curved line—a river, for instance. It's not a straight line, so you can't
just measure it end to end. So, what can you do? You might decide to measure it using a piece of string, laying the string
along the river's path and then straightening it out to measure it. But the string won't perfectly match the river's
path—it'll miss the tiny twists and turns.

Now imagine if you could measure the river with an infinitely small piece of string—an infinitesimal. It could capture every
tiny twist and turn of the river, giving an exact measurement. This is the concept of an infinitesimal—a quantity so small
that it's almost zero, but it's just enough to capture the precise detail.

In calculus, infinitesimals are used in a similar way. They let us calculate things like the exact slope of a curve at a
single point, which a larger measurement couldn't capture. This is crucial in many areas of science and engineering.

[New Conversation]
(0.7/16384/0): default
flyxion@gpt-3.5-turbo-1106 1> /chat 2

 • Fetching conversation history...


                                                     Finding the Way Out



System:

You are a helpful assistant.



User:

exit



Assistant:

Goodbye! If you have more questions in the future, feel free to ask. Have a great day!

[New Conversation]
(0.7/16384/0): default
flyxion@gpt-3.5-turbo-1106 1> /chat 1

 • Fetching conversation history...


                  1. "Free Energy Minimisation in Neuroscience", 2. "Perceptual Inference and Categorisation



System:

You are a helpful assistant.



User:

y minimisation and information theory Free energy minimisation is equivalent to maximising the mutual information between
sensory states and internal states that parameterise the variational density (for a fixed entropy variational density). This
relates free energy minimization to the principle of minimum redundancy.[36][12]

┏━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━┓
┃   Free energy minimisation in neuroscience Free energy minimisation provides a useful way to formulate normative (Bayes    ┃
┃  optimal) models of neuronal inference and learning under uncertainty[37] and therefore subscribes to the Bayesian brain   ┃
┃   hypothesis.[38] The neuronal processes described by free energy minimisation depend on the nature of hidden states: Ψ    ┃
┗━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━┛

X × Θ × Π {\displaystyle \Psi =X\times \Theta \times \Pi } that can comprise time-dependent variables, time-invariant
parameters and the precision (inverse variance or temperature) of random fluctuations. Minimising variables, parameters, and
precision correspond to inference, learning, and the encoding of uncertainty, respectively.

Perceptual inference and categorisation Free energy minimisation formalises the notion of unconscious inference in
perception[7][9] and provides a normative (Bayesian) theory of neuronal processing. The associated process theory of neuronal
dynamics is based on minimising free energy through gradient descent. This corresponds to generalised Bayesian filtering
(where ~ denotes a variable in generalised coordinates of motion and D {\displaystyle D} is a derivative matrix operator):[39]

┏━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━┓
┃                                                           μ ~ ˙                                                            ┃
┗━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━┛

┏━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━┓
┃                                                D μ ~ − ∂ μ F ( s , μ ) | μ                                                 ┃
┗━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━┛

μ ~ {\displaystyle {\dot {\tilde {\mu }}}=D{\tilde {\mu }}-\partial {\mu }F(s,\mu ){\Big |}{\mu ={\tilde {\mu }}}} Usually,
the generative models that define free energy are non-linear and hierarchical (like cortical hierarchies in the brain).
Special cases of generalised filtering include Kalman filtering, which is formally equivalent to predictive coding[40] – a
popular metaphor for message passing in the brain. Under hierarchical models, predictive coding involves the recurrent
exchange of ascending (bottom-up) prediction errors and descending (top-down) predictions[41] that is consistent with the
anatomy and physiology of sensory[42] and motor systems.[43]

Perceptual learning and memory In predictive coding, optimising model parameters through a gradient descent on the time
integral of free energy (free action) reduces to associative or Hebbian plasticity and is associated with synaptic plasticity
in the brain.

Perceptual precision, attention and salience Optimizing the precision parameters corresponds to optimizing the gain of
prediction errors (c.f., Kalman gain). In neuronally plausible implementations of predictive coding,[41] this corresponds to
optimizing the excitability of superficial pyramidal cells and has been interpreted in terms of attentional gain.[44]

Simulation of the results achieved from a selective attention task carried out by the Bayesian reformulation of the SAIM
entitled PE-SAIM in multiple objects environment. The graphs show the time course of the activation for the FOA and the two
template units in the Knowledge Network. With regard to the top-down vs. bottom-up controversy, which has been addressed as a
major open problem of attention, a computational model has succeeded in illustrating the circular nature of the interplay
between top-down and bottom-up mechanisms. Using an established emergent model of attention, namely SAIM, the authors proposed
a model called PE-SAIM, which, in contrast to the standard version, approaches selective attention from a top-down position.
The model takes into account the transmission of prediction errors to the same level or a level above, in order to minimise
the energy function that indicates the difference between the data and its cause, or, in other words, between the generative
model and the posterior. To increase validity, they also incorporated neural competition between stimuli into their model. A
notable feature of this model is the reformulation of the free energy function only in terms of prediction errors during task
performance:

┏━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━┓
┃                                ∂ E t o t a l ( Y V P , X S N , x C N , y K N ) ∂ y m n S N                                 ┃
┗━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━┛

x m n C N − b C N ε n m C N + b C N ∑ k ( ε k n m K N ) {\displaystyle {\dfrac {\partial
E^{total}(Y^{VP},X^{SN},x^{CN},y^{KN})}{\partial y_{mn}^{SN}}}=x_{mn}^{CN}-b^{CN}\varepsilon _{nm}^{CN}+b^{CN}\sum
_{k}(\varepsilon _{knm}^{KN})}

where E t o t a l {\displaystyle E^{total}} is the total energy function of the neural networks entail, and ε k n m K N
{\displaystyle \varepsilon _{knm}^{KN}} is the prediction error between the generative model (prior) and posterior changing
over time.[45] Comparing the two models reveals a notable similarity between their respective results while also highlighting
a remarkable discrepancy, whereby – in the standard version of the SAIM – the model's focus is mainly upon the excitatory
connections, whereas in the PE-SAIM, the inhibitory connections are leveraged to make an inference. The model has also proved
to be fit to predict the EEG and fMRI data drawn from human experiments with high precision. In the same vein, Yahya et al.
also applied the free energy principle to propose a computational model for template matching in covert selective visual
attention that mostly relies on SAIM.[46] According to this study, the total free energy of the whole state-space is reached
by inserting top-down signals in the original neural networks, whereby we derive a dynamical system comprising both
feed-forward and backward prediction error.

┏━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━┓
┃                              Active inference When gradient descent is applied to action a ˙                               ┃
┗━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━┛

− ∂ a F ( s , μ ~ ) {\displaystyle {\dot {a}}=-\partial _{a}F(s,{\tilde {\mu }})}, motor control can be understood in terms of
classical reflex arcs that are engaged by descending (corticospinal) predictions. This provides a formalism that generalizes
the equilibrium point solution – to the degrees of freedom problem[47] – to movement trajectories.

┏━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━┓
┃    Active inference and optimal control Active inference is related to optimal control by replacing value or cost-to-go    ┃
┃   functions with prior beliefs about state transitions or flow.[48] This exploits the close connection between Bayesian    ┃
┃       filtering and the solution to the Bellman equation. However, active inference starts with (priors over) flow f       ┃
┗━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━┛

┏━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━┓
┃       Γ ⋅ ∇ V + ∇ × W {\displaystyle f=\Gamma \cdot \nabla V+\nabla \times W} that are specified with scalar V ( x )       ┃
┃      {\displaystyle V(x)} and vector W ( x ) {\displaystyle W(x)} value functions of state space (c.f., the Helmholtz      ┃
┃        decomposition). Here, Γ {\displaystyle \Gamma } is the amplitude of random fluctuations and cost is c ( x )         ┃
┗━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━┛

┏━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━┓
┃  f ⋅ ∇ V + ∇ ⋅ Γ ⋅ V {\displaystyle c(x)=f\cdot \nabla V+\nabla \cdot \Gamma \cdot V}. The priors over flow p ( x ~ ∣ m )  ┃
┃                        {\displaystyle p({\tilde {x}}\mid m)} induce a prior over states p ( x ∣ m )                        ┃
┗━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━┛

┏━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━┓
┃     exp ⁡ ( V ( x ) ) {\displaystyle p(x\mid m)=\exp(V(x))} that is the solution to the appropriate forward Kolmogorov      ┃
┃     equations.[49] In contrast, optimal control optimises the flow, given a cost function, under the assumption that W     ┃
┗━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━┛

0 {\displaystyle W=0} (i.e., the flow is curl free or has detailed balance). Usually, this entails solving backward Kolmogorov
equations.[50]



Assistant:

It seems like you've provided a comprehensive overview of the concepts related to free energy minimization, Bayesian brain
hypothesis, perceptual inference, categorization, learning, memory, attention, and active inference. Is there anything
specific you would like to discuss or any questions you have on these topics?



User:

A summary



Assistant:

Certainly! Here's a summary of the key points from the text you provided:

 • Free energy minimisation is linked to maximising mutual information between sensory and internal states, relating to the
   principle of minimum redundancy.
 • In neuroscience, free energy minimisation is used to model neuronal inference and learning under uncertainty, aligning with
   the Bayesian brain hypothesis.
 • Free energy minimisation formalises unconscious inference in perception and provides a normative (Bayesian) theory of
   neuronal processing.
 • Perceptual learning and memory are associated with optimising model parameters through gradient descent and are related to
   synaptic plasticity in the brain.
 • Optimising precision parameters corresponds to optimising the gain of prediction errors, which is associated with
   attentional gain in neuronally plausible implementations of predictive coding.
 • A computational model called PE-SAIM approaches selective attention from a top-down position, taking into account the
   transmission of prediction errors to minimize the energy function.
 • Active inference provides a formalism for understanding motor control in terms of classical reflex arcs engaged by
   descending predictions.
 • Active inference is related to optimal control by replacing value or cost-to-go functions with prior beliefs about state
   transitions or flow.

This summary captures the main ideas related to free energy minimisation, Bayesian brain hypothesis, perceptual inference,
attention, and active inference. If you have any specific questions or need further clarification on any of these topics, feel
free to ask!

[New Conversation]
(0.7/16384/0): default
flyxion@gpt-3.5-turbo-1106 1>
